Today, we are able to live in an independent India because of the sacrifices of millions of sons and daughters of Mother India. This is an occasion to pay tribute to the freedom fighters, martyrs and brave souls and their spirit and dedication to free Mother India.

The valiant soldiers of our armed forces, our paramilitary forces, our police personnel and our security forces- everyone is engaged in protecting Mother India. They are engaged in safeguarding the common man. Today is the day to remember their sacrifices and penance sincerely and wholeheartedly.

There is another name: Aurobindo Ghose. Today is the birth anniversary of Aurobindo Ghose, who tread the path from being a revolutionary to spirituality. Let us seek his blessings so that we can fulfil his as well as our vision.

We are passing through an extraordinary situation. Today, children- the bright future of India- are not in front of me. Why? It is because Corona has stopped everyone. In this period of corona, I salute millions of corona warriors- doctors, nurses, sanitation workers, ambulance drivers and so on-who all should I count.

I salute all the corona warriors, who for a long time have adhered to the mantra of ‘सेवा परमो धर्म’ i.e. service is the best religion and have served the children of Mother India with complete dedication.

In the period of corona, many of our brothers and sisters have been affected by this pandemic; many families have been affected; many have also lost their lives. I express my condolences to all such families, and I believe the indomitable will power and determination of 130 crore countrymen will make us win over Corona and we shall definitely win.

I know that recently we have been passing through a number of crises. Floods, especially in the north-east, eastern India, south India and some parts of western India; landslides in many areas; people have had to face many problems. Many people have lost their lives. I also express my condolences to those families.

And the nation stands in solidarity with the state governments in these days of crisis. No stone is being left unturned by either the state or central government to provide relief measures to the needy.

My dear Countrymen, Independence Day is a festival to celebrate freedom. It is an occasion to enthuse new energy by remembering our freedom fighters. This day is a harbinger of new inspirations. It reignites new fervour, exuberance and enthusiasm. And in times like now, it becomes even more imperative for us to be determined. It is an auspicious day because when we meet again next year to celebrate, we shall be entering into the 75 years of our free existence. This is a momentous occasion. Today, all of us 130 crores Indians have to make significant pledges for the coming two years. And when we complete the 75 years of our freedom, we will be able celebrate the redemption of those pledges .

My dear countrymen, our forefathers fought for this freedom with extreme commitment, utmost integrity, sincere penance, renunciation and sacrifice; we should never forget the way they laid their lives for Mother India. We should never forget that during this long and dark ages of slavery, not even a moment was lost when they were not moved by the desire for freedom. There insn't a countryman who did not put his best foot forward aspiring to break free the nation from the shackles of slavery, by waging a war and making any sacrifice possible to bring this day. Many sacrificed their youth in jails. Many left behind their life's dreams and embraced the gallows. I salute these revered martyrs who offered themselves as an oblation. Indeed amazing! On the one side, the country witnessed a phase of mass movements and on the other side the resounding voice of armed revolt.

Under the leadership of Pujya Bapu, the great national awakening accompanied by mass movements, gave new impetus to the struggle for freedom. And so today we are blessed to be able to celebrate our Independence Day with such fervour.

During this freedom struggle, several efforts were made to douse the fire of revolt and throttle the soul and spirit of our motherland. Many attempts were made to ruin the Indian culture, tradition, customs and heritage. Running across centuries, that was the period of SAAM DAAM DAND BHED (either by hook or crook) – and all this was at its peak. Many came here with the innate belief that they have come to reign the world for eternity (yaavat chandra diwakaro-till sun and moon exist). But the strong determination to be freed beat such ambitions to dust. They believed that India was a divided lot due to the existence of multiple identities, nobilities, languages and dialects, cuisines, costumes and culture. They labored under the misunderstanding that a country of so many diversities can never stand up as one against any force. But they could not recognize the soul and pulse of the country, that life force, that chord which binds us together. And when this force came out with full vigour in the fight for freedom, India succeeded in throwing away the shackles of slavery .

We are aware of the fact that that was the regime when propagators of expansionism spread across geographies and attained supremacy and power, but the freedom movement of India inspired many across the globe to stand against these forces. India became a pillar and ignited the fire of freedom struggle all over the world.

And those, who were involved in the blind race of expansionism, threw the World into two World wars, destroyed humanity, ruined lives and wrecked the globe to achieve their designs.

But even during such a period, even in the midst of the destructive war, India did not abandon its urge for freedom; neither was it found lacking, nor did it lower its guard.

Whenever there was a need, the country has been making sacrifices, enduring sufferings and leading people’s movements. India’s battle created an atmosphere for freedom in the world. And the change that the power of India brought in the world, it became a challenge for expansionism. History can never deny it.

My dear countrymen,

In the entire World, in its war for independence, India kept marching with its head high with its strength of unity, collectivity, the resolve for its bright future, its commitment and inspiration.

My dear countrymen,

In the midst of the Corona pandemic, 130 crore Indians pledged themselves to become self-reliant. Today self-reliance is etched in the mind of every Indian. We are also witnessing the realization of that dream of Self-Reliant India (“AatmaNirbharBharat”). “Self-reliant India” is not just a word, it has become a mantra for 130 crore countrymen.

|
When I talk of self-reliance, all of us who are now above the age group of 25-30 years surely recall how we were goaded by our parents and elders to become self-reliant as we attained an age of 20 - 21. Every family expects its children of 20-21 years to be self-reliant. As we are just one step away from the 75th Anniversary of Independence, it is essential for a country like India to stand own its own, and to become self reliant. What is necessary for a family is also essential for a country. I have full faith that India will realize this dream. And the reason for this is the strength of my country’s citizens in which I have full faith, I am proud of their talent, I have confidence in our youth and the country’s unparalleled women power. I have faith in the thinking, in the approach of India. And history is witness that whenever India resolves to do something, it does it.

Therefore, when we talk about self-reliance, it arouses not only curiosity all over the World but also expectations from India. Therefore, it is imperative that we make ourselves capable for realization of that expectation. It is very essential to prepare ourselves.

A large country like India is full of energy of youth power. The first condition for a self-reliant India is self-confidence which is the foundation of self-reliance.

And this has the power to give a new vision and a new energy to development.

India has always followed the adage - ‘Whole world is one family’. Veda says ‘वसुधैव कुटुम्बकम्’ and Vinoba ji used to say ‘‘जय जगत’ i.e. hail the world. Therefore, the world is one family for us. So, alongside financial development, mankind and humanity should also get importance. And we follow this dictum.

Today the world is interconnected and inter-dependent. So, it is the need of the hour that a vast country like India should increase its contribution to the world economy. It is also India’s duty towards world welfare. If India wants to increase its contribution then she herself will have to be empowered; she will have to be self-reliant or ‘AatmaNirbhar’. We must make ourselves capable of contributing towards world welfare. If our roots are strong and we are capable enough, we will be able to take steps towards world welfare.

Our country has plenty of natural resources. It is the need of the hour that we start the value addition of these natural resources and human resources; and to take the country to new heights. How long shall we continue to export raw material to the world? How long will the process of exporting raw material and importing finished goods continue? So, we will have to be self-reliant. We will have to resort to value addition of our capabilities as per the world’s requirements. It is our responsibility. We want to move ahead in the field of value addition to contribute to world welfare. Similarly, there was a time when we used to import wheat from abroad; but our farmers have done a wonderful job. And now India is self-reliant in the agricultural sector. Today India’s farmers not only supply the food grains for the citizens of India but India is also in such a position that it provides food grains to the other countries in need.

|
Though this is our strength- the strength of self-reliance in agriculture- value addition is also necessary in this sector. Our farm sector needs to evolve in line with requirements of world; Value addition is required for our farm sector

Today, the country is taking several new initiatives. You see, we have opened up the space sector. The youth of the country is getting opportunities. We have liberated the agriculture sector from the shackles of laws and have tried to make it self-reliant. When India becomes powerful in the space sector, neighbouring countries also get its benefits. If we become powerful in the energy sector, India can help those countries that want to dispel their darkness. When the country’s health infrastructure becomes self-reliant, then India becomes a preferred country as a destination for health tourism. Therefore, it is necessary to see to it that ‘Make in India’ products get appreciated in the world. History is a witness to the fact that there was a time when the products made in our country by our skilled manpower were used to get appreciated all over the world.

When we talk about becoming self-reliant, then we do not merely refer to decreasing the import demands. When we talk of self-reliance, it is about our skills, our human resources. When we start sourcing things from abroad, then our capabilities start depleting and consequently, it gets completely destroyed over generations. We need to preserve it and enhance that caliber of ours. We need to accentuate our skills, our creativity and with that we need to touch new heights. We need to strengthen skill development for a self-reliant India, for improving our competency.

My dear citizens, I know that when I talk about becoming self-reliant then people raise several doubts. I do accept that there are millions of challenges while we travel on the path of becoming self-reliant and these challenges increase further in a competitive world. We should realise that for the millions of challenges we face, our nation has the capability to provide billions of solutions. My countrymen are there with the capability to resolve the issues.

You can see that in the challenging times of Corona, we were in need of many items which we needed to import but the world was unable to provide them. The youth of our nation, our entrepreneurs, the industry accepted the challenge. The nation that never manufactured N-95, started doing so. We started production of PPE which was not being produced before, similarly we started producing ventilators in India, which were not being made here before. We are not only able to meet our own requirements, but now also become strong enough to export to the world. We can very well see how a self-reliant India can help the world. Therefore it is also the duty of India to work for the welfare of the world.

Enough is enough. What should be the mind-set of independent India? The mind-set of independent India should be ‘Vocal for Local’. We should take pride in our local products. If we do not praise and support our indigenous products, then how will they get an opportunity to flourish and improve, how will they gain strength? Come, let’s pledge that as we move towards the 75th year of our independence, we shall adopt the talisman of ‘Vocal for Local’ and together let's strengthen ourselves.

My dear Countrymen, we have clearly seen how our nation can do wonders, how it progresses. Who could have imagined that lakhs and crores of money would be directly transferred to the Jan-Dhan accounts of the poor? Who could have imagined that so many changes would be made in the APMC Act for the welfare of farmers? Who could have thought that the farmers who were living under the Damocles’ sword of the Essential Commodities Act, would be freed of it after so many years? Could we have imagined that the space sector would be laid open for the youth of our nation? Today we are witnessing that National Education Policy, One Nation-One Ration Card, One Nation-One Grid, One Nation-One Tax, Insolvency and Bank Bankruptcy Code and the effort for merger of banks- all these things have become the reality of nation, fact for our nation.

The world is looking at the outcomes of the reforms that are taking place in India in these times. The world is closely observing the reforms we are bringing one after another, one linked to another. As a result of this Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in India has broken all its previous records last year.

Last year, there has been an 18% increase in FDI in India. So, even during the corona pandemic, top companies of the world are turning to India. This confidence hasn’t been created just like that. The world didn’t get fascinated with India without a reason. This confidence has grown because of the hard work put in by India in the field of its policies, democracy and strengthening the foundation of its economy.

Today many businesses of the world are viewing India as the hub of the supply chain. So now, we have to move ahead with the mantra of ‘Make for World’ alongside ‘Make in India’.

Try to recall what happened recently and take pride in the capabilities of 130 crore countrymen. During this corona pandemic, there were cyclones in the east and the west coasts of India, umpteen number of people died because of lightning & landslides, and earthquakes of small intensity were felt time and again. As if these were not enough, swarms of locust created havoc for our farmers. A series of adversities struck one after another. Yet, the country didn’t lose confidence and continued to move forward with self-confidence.

|
Today, it is our priority to pull the people and the economy of our country out of this corona pandemic. The National Infrastructure Pipeline Project will play an important role in this endeavour. Rs 110 lakh crore will be spent on this project. For this, about seven thousand projects have been identified in different sectors. This will also give a new direction and a fresh momentum to the overall infrastructure development of the country. It is often said that during crises, the emphasis should be given on infrastructure so that economic activity is speeded up and people get employment and it generates a cascading effect. Both small and large enterprises, farmers and the middle class benefit to a great extent.

And I want to recall one incident today. When Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the Prime Minister, he had started a programme with far-reaching impact called the Golden Quadrilateral. He had taken the road network infrastructure to the next generation level. Even today, the country looks at the ‘golden quadrilateral’ with pride and feels yes, our country is transforming.

My dear countrymen,

Atal ji had done this work in his time but now we have to carry it forward. We must give it a new thrust. We cannot work in silos. We do not need a situation where in the infrastructure sector, road sector will work only for roads and the rail sector will work only for rail. There is no coordination between the railways and the roadways, between the airport and the port, between the railway station and the bus station– this sort of situation is not desirable. We must ensure that the infrastructure is a comprehensive and an integrated one. It should be complementary to each other. The rail should be complementary to the road, the road to sea port and the sea port to the airport. We are moving towards a multi-modal connectivity infrastructure for the new century. And this will give a new dimension. We have started the work with a great dream. And I believe that by eliminating silos, we will give a new strength to all these systems.

Along with this, our coastline has a very important significance in the world trade. While moving on with Port led development, in the coming days, we will focus on working towards building a modern state-of-art infrastructure towards the construction of four lane road across the entire coastline.

My dear countrymen,

Our scriptures said something very profound. It is said in our scriptures that- 'Samarthya mulam Swatantryam, Shram mulam Vaibhavam' means 'Capability is the source of freedom, and labour force is the source of grandeur, prosperity and progress of any nation.

Therefore, nothing can match the hard work of the common man, be it cities or villages. When a toiling society gets amenities, the struggles of life ease, everyday troubles are reduced and this helps in boosting their energy paying rich dividends.

In the last six years, several campaigns have been launched to improve the lives of the toiling citizens of the country be it about their own bank accounts, owning a pucca house, construction of such a large number of toilets, providing electricity connection in every house, providing a gas connection to free our mothers and sisters from the smoke, making efforts to provide insurance protection to the poorest of the poor, Ayushman Bharat Yojna to provide free treatment of upto five lakh rupees in the best of hospitals, connecting Ration shops through digital technology. A significant progress was made in the last six years to reinstate transparency and remove discriminatory practices so that facilities reach every poor person.

These instruments have also helped a lot in delivering the services seamlessly during the Corona crisis. During this period, we continued to provide free gas cylinders to crores of poor families, irrespective of whether they had ration card or not the kitchen flames of more than 80 crores of my countrymen were kept alighted by supplying free food grains to the 80 crores countrymen; approximately 90 thousand crore rupees were transferred directly into the bank accounts. Just a few years ago, this would have been unimaginable that all hundred paise of a rupee disbursed from Delhi would reach the account of the poor. It was indeed beyond one's imagination hitherto.

Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan has been launched to generate employment in their own villages. We trust that our worker friends will be re-skilling and upskilling themselves. Having full faith in their efforts, relying on the skilled manpower, relying on rural and indigenous resources, we gave a clarion call “vocal for local” and “re-skill and up-skill” in an endeavor to empower our poor and our country's labour force.

Since the center of economic activity is the city, a scheme is being implemented for workers like street vendors etc who come from off villages to the cities for their livelihood, for providing finances directly by the banks. Lakhs of people have taken advantage of this in such a short span of time even during the period of the Corona crisis. Now they do not need to borrow money at high interest. The workers can now get their money with dignity and authority.

In the same way, when our workers migrate to the city, if they get good accommodation then their efficiency also increases. And keeping this in mind, we have formulated a major scheme for arranging affordable housing for them inside the city, so that when the workers come to the city, they can focus, deliver and progress with full faith and commitment.

My dear countrymen,

This is also true and we have seen that there are some segments of the society which get left behind, are not able to come out of poverty in the country’s march towards development, Similarly, there are some areas, places, terrains which get left behind. Balanced development is very much necessary to make India self-reliant. We have identified more than 110 aspiring districts which are lagging behind compared to an average district. We have to bring each and every parameter of those districts at par with the country’s average. We are making every effort so that people of these 110 districts, which are lagging behind, have access to better education, better health facilities and have opportunities for local employment.

My dear countrymen,

The priority of a self-reliant India is a self-reliant farming sector and self-reliant farmers. And we cannot ignore them. We have seen the condition of farmers. Various reforms have been undertaken since independence. We have to free them of all the shackles and we have done that.

You can’t even imagine this. If you make soap, fabric or sugar in one corner you can sell it in any part of the country. But not many people know that our farmers could not sell their produce anywhere in the country and according to their will. He had to sell his produce at a notified area. We have eliminated all those restrictions.

Now India’s farmer will be able to breathe free by selling his produce in any part of the country or the world according to his own terms. We have emphasized on several alternative measures to increase the income of the farmer. We are constantly working to reduce the input cost of the farming. How can he be provided a solar pump instead of a diesel pump, how can the producer of food become an energy producer? We are working in a direction so that avenues like bee farming, fisheries, poultry, etc should be made available to him so that his income gets doubled.

|
Time demands that our agriculture sector becomes modern and there should be value addition, there should be food processing, food packaging. And it needs better infrastructure.

You must have seen that the Indian government has sanctioned 1,00,000 crore rupees for agriculture infrastructure even during the Corona pandemic. This infrastructure will be for the welfare of the farmers and they will be able to get better prices of their produce, and will be able to sell their produce in foreign markets. They will have greater reach to foreign markets.

There is a need to strengthen rural industries. Special economic zones will be created in the rural areas. A web of agriculture and non-agriculture industries will be created. We have tried to create FPO (Farmer Product Association) which will go a long way in their economic empowerment.

Brothers and sisters,

Last time, I had made an announcement for the Jal Jeevan Mission. It is completing one year. I am very proud to tell you that our dream of making available pure drinking water to all the people is getting realized. The solution to several health problems is directly linked to the pure drinking water. It also contributes to that nation’s economy. That’s why we have started the Jal Jeevan Mission.

Today, I am happy to say that everyday we are able to supply piped-water to over one lakh houses. And in the last one year, we have been able to provide water to 2 crore families, especially to the tribals living in the forests and far-flung areas. A huge campaign has been run. And I am glad that today 'Jal-Jeevan Mission' has created an environment of healthy competition in the country. There is a healthy competition among the districts, among the cities and also among the states. Everyone is hoping that the Prime Minister's dream of 'Jal-Jeevan Mission' is accomplished at the earliest in their respective areas. The new strength of Cooperative and Competitive Federalism has been associated with the ‘Jal Jeevan Mission’ and we are moving forward with it.

|
 

My dear countrymen,

Whether it is the agriculture sector, the small scale industries sector or the people in services sector, almost all these people, in a way constitute a huge middle class of India. The professionals from the middle class have made a name for themselves in the world today. Our doctors, engineers, lawyers, scientists, from the middle class have made a mark in the world. Therefore, it is true that whatever opportunities that the middle class gets, they make the most out of it and therefore the middle class needs freedom from government interference. The middle class must get more new opportunities and an open environment, and our government is constantly working to fulfil these dreams of the middle class. The middle class has the power to do miracles. So the middle class families get the greatest benefits of Ease of living. Cheap internet, affordable smartphones or cheap flight tickets under UDAN scheme or our highways or Information ways - all these things are going to increase the strength of the middle class. Today you must have seen that the prime dream of the middle class person who has come out of poverty, is to have a home; he wants an equal life. We have done a lot of work in the field of EMI in the country and as a result, the Home Loan rates have become cheaper. When someone takes a home loan, one can get a rebate of about 6 lakh rupees, by the time the loan is repaid. Recently, it was noticed that a lot of affected middle-class families have invested their money (to buy a house), but could not get the possession of the house due to lack of completion of the schemes and they were still living in a rented house. The Government of India has set up a special fund of 25 thousand crores rupees to complete the incomplete houses to ensure that middle class families get homes.

The rates of GST and the income tax have come down. Today, with these minimum establishment facilities, we are trying to take the country forward. Bringing co-operative banks under the ambit of RBI, in itself is a guarantee for safety of the money of middle class families.

The reforms undertaken in the MSME sector and the agriculture sector, will directly benefit these hard-working middle class families. Consequently, our businessmen and small entrepreneurs will get the benefits of the special fund of thousands of crores of rupees. The strength and energy of the common Indian is the big foundation of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. Relentless work is going on at every level to maintain this strength.

|
My dear countrymen,

Education of the country is of great importance in building a self-reliant, modern, New India, an India which will be prosperous and happy. With this thought, we have become successful today in providing the country with a new National Education Policy after three decades.

Every nook and corner of India is welcoming it with renewed enthusiasm and a new vigour.. And this is the National Education Policy, which will connect our students with the roots. Alongside, it will help them become global citizens. The students will be well-rooted and still touching new heights.

You must have noticed that a special stress has been laid in National Education Policy on National Research Foundation because in order to progress, the nation needs to innovate. Higher the stress that will be laid on innovation and research, greater would be the strength to take India forward in this competitive world.

Who would have thought that there would be online classes in rural areas and such a momentum would be created so fast? Sometimes, in the times of adversity, new revolutionary initiatives emerge with force. That’s the reason we have witnessed how in this pandemic situation, a culture of online classes has emerged.

You can see how fast the online digital transactions are increasing. Look at BHIM UPI app…. Anyone would be immensely proud to know that we could make transactions of Rs 3 Lakh Crore in the last month alone through BHIM UPI.. This is an excellent example of how we have accepted the changing scenarios.

If you see, prior to 2014, only 5 dozen panchayats had the optical fiber network. However in the last 5 years, 1.5 lakh panchayats are connected with the optical fiber network which is helping us today, immensely. We are working on the goal of taking it to every panchayat and this work is in progress in the remaining one lakh panchayats. In these changing times it is essential that Rural India is also brought under the ambit of Digital India. There is a surge in the demand of online facilities among the rural population. Keeping this in view, we had earlier proposed the extension of connectivity to every panchayat and today I would like to assure you that we have decided that we will connect all our six lakh villages, with the optical fiber network. As the requirements have changed, so have our priorities. In over six lakh villages, thousands and lakhs of kilometers of optical fiber would be laid down. We have decided that within 1000 days, we will complete the work of connecting over six lakhs villages with optical fiber.

In this era of technology, our dependence on cyberspace is going to increase multifold. However, cyberspace offers its own risks and threats. The world is very well aware of these. It can be a threat to the social fabric of our country, our economy and can even threaten the development of our nation; we are very well-aware of that. India is very cautious and is planning to take steps to combat these risks. Not only this, new systems are continuously being developed. In a short span of time, a draft of new cyber security policy would be presented to the nation. In the coming times, we will have to integrate everything and then work within the framework of this cyber security. We will formulate strategies to move forth.

|
My dear countrymen,

Whenever opportunities were given to women power in India, they have brought glory to the country and have strengthened the country. Today the country is committed to providing equal opportunities for employment and self-employment to women. Today women in India are working in underground coal mines. Today, the daughters of my country are also flying the fighter planes and touching the skies. Today India is among those countries of the world where women are being included in the combat role in the Navy and the Air Force. We have taken the decision of providing 6 months paid leave to pregnant women, liberating our Muslim sisters and women of our country from the suffering of triple talaq and the economic empowerment of women.

Out of the 40 crore Jan Dhan accounts, 22 crore accounts belong to our sisters. During the Corona period, about 30 thousand crore rupees have been deposited into the accounts of these sisters. Around 25 crore MUDRA loans have been given, in which 70% of the loans have been given to our mothers and sisters. Under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, maximum registration is also being done in the names of women.

My dear countrymen,

This government has also been persistently concerned about the better healthcare for poor sisters and daughters. We have done a huge job to providing sanitary pads at one rupee each in Janaushadhi Kendra. In a short span of time, more than 5 crore sanitary pads have been delivered to these poor women from 6000 Janaushadhi Kendras.

We have formed a committee to ensure that the daughters are no longer suffering from malnutrition and they are married off at the right age. As soon as the report is submitted, appropriate decisions will be taken about the age of marriage of daughters.

My dear countrymen,

It is very natural that health sector draws attention in this period of Corona pandemic. As such, the biggest lesson of self-reliance has been taught to us by the Health Sector during this crisis. And to achieve that goal we also have to move forward.

You see, earlier there was only one Lab for testing in our country. Today there is a network of 1400 Labs, spread in every corner of the country. In the initial stage of the Corona crisis, only 300 tests could be conducted in one day, but in such a short span of time, our people have shown that today we can conduct more than 7 lakh tests per day. We started with 300 and reached 7 lakhs!

|
We are making continuous efforts towards modernization, construction of new AIIMS and new Medical Colleges in the country. In five years, the MBBS and MD seats have been increased for more than 45 thousand students. There are more than 1.5 lakh wellness centers in the villages and about one-third of them are already functional, which have helped a lot during this Corona pandemic. The Wellness Centers in the Corona times have helped the villages immensely.

A massive campaign is going to start in the health sector from today and technology will also play a major role in it.

The National Digital Health Mission is also being launched from today. It will bring a new revolution in India's Health Sector. Technology will be used prudently to reduce the challenges in treatment.

Every Indian will be given a Health ID. This Health ID will work like a Health Account of every Indian. This account will contain your details of every test, every disease, the doctors you visited, the medicines you took and the diagnosis. When and what was the report, all such information will be incorporated in the Health ID.

The National Digital Health Mission will eliminate all these difficulties related to appointment with a doctor, depositing money, making a slip in the hospital, etc. We are devising a system which will help each and every citizen to make a better and informed decision.
  

|
My dear countrymen, there is a curiosity among everybody when the Corona vaccine will be ready. This is natural. This anxiety is there in everybody and everywhere in the world.

I would like to tell my countrymen that our scientists are dutifully engaged in the laboratories. They are putting in great efforts. At present, testing for three vaccines is in different stages in the country. Once we get a green signal from our scientists, we will launch massive production of the vaccine. We have made all the preparations. We have drawn an outline to ramp up the production of the vaccines and to make it available to each and every person in the shortest possible time.

My dear countrymen, there are different scenes of development in different regions in our country. There are some regions which are well developed, whereas there are others which are left behind. I think this imbalance is an important challenge to make India self-reliant. As I said earlier, we are emphasizing on 110 ambitious districts. We want these districts to be at par with the developed ones. Our priority is to create an ecosystem for development and improve connectivity.

Now you see. The western, central and eastern parts of the country -- be it eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Northeast, or Odisha -- have abundant reserves of natural wealth. The people of these regions are very capable, strong and talented, but there has been an imbalance in these regions due to the absence of opportunities. Therefore, we have taken several measures. We are developing Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor, connecting the eastern region with the gas pipe line, developing new rail infrastructure and new ports. We are developing the entire infrastructure for the development in a very holistic way.

Similarly, Leh-Ladakh, Jammu-Kashmir have been freed from Article 370. It has been one year now. This one year is a major milestone in the new development journey of Jammu-Kashmir. This has been a year of providing basic rights to the women and to the Dalits. It has also been a year for our refugees to live a life of dignity. We have launched several campaigns like Back to Villages so that the villages get benefited. Today, the Ayushman Scheme is being used in the best possible way in the region of Jammu-Kashmir and Ladakh.

My dear countrymen, the true strength of our democracy lies in the elected local bodies. It is a matter of pride for us that the peoples’ representatives of the local units in Jammu and Kashmir are actively pursuing a new era of development with activism and sensitivity. I congratulate their “panch, sarpanch”(village headmen) for their active participation in this development journey.

The delimitation exercise is going on in Jammu-Kashmir under the leadership of a retired chief justice of the Supreme Court. We want early completion of the delimitation exercise so that there are early elections, there should be Jammu-Kashmir MLAs, its own cabinet, its Chief Minister so that it can march towards development with a new vigour. India is committed to it and is making all efforts in this regard.

We have taken a bold step to meet the aspirations of the people of Ladakh by making it the Union Territory which has been their demand for the last several years. Nestled in the heights of the Himalayas, Ladakh is progressing towards new heights. Work is going on for a central university, setting up new research centres, new courses for hotel and management. Plan is also under way for the creation of 7,500 MW Solar Park. But, my dear countrymen, Ladakh has several specialties. Not only do we have to preserve them, we have to nurture them as well. As Sikkim has made its mark as an Organic State in the northeast, Ladakh, Leh and Kargil can also create their own niche as a Carbon Neutral unit. Indian government has joined hands with the locals of the region to create a new model of development as per their own requirements.

My dear countrymen, India has shown that the march towards development is possible by balancing the environment. Today India is inspiring the entire world with its vision of one world, one sun and one grid, particularly in the field of solar energy.

India has established itself as one of the five countries in the world in the generation of renewable energy. India is both aware as well as involved in finding solutions to pollution. We are leaving no stone unturned whether it is the Swachh India campaign, smoke-less cooking gas, LED campaign, CNG-based transportation, or electric mobility. We are emphasizing on increasing the use of ethanol to reduce pollution caused due to petrol. What was the condition of ethanol in our country five years ago? Five years ago, there used to be only 40 crore litre production of ethanol. It has risen to five times in the last five years. Today, we are producing 200 crore litres of ethanol which is proving to be very helpful towards our environment.

My dear countrymen, we are working on a holistic approach to reduce pollution in the select 100 cities through an integrated approach and modern technology with people’s participation.

My dear countrymen,

India can say this proudly that it is one of the very few countries where its area under forests is expanding. India is committed towards the promotion and conservation of its Biodiversity. We have successfully carried forward Project Tiger and Project Elephant. The Tiger population has increased in India. In the coming days, we are starting ‘Project Lion’ for the Asiatic Lions. And under Project Lion the work on the required infrastructure for the protection and security of Indian lions and in particular, the special type of health infrastructure required will be undertaken. And emphasis will be laid on Project Lion.

Also, one more work we want to promote and that is - Project Dolphin. We will focus on both types of dolphins living in the rivers and in the seas. This will also give a boost to Biodiversity and also create employment opportunities. This is also a center of attraction for tourism. So, we are going to move forward in this direction too.

My dear countrymen,

When we embark on an extraordinary journey with an extraordinary goal, the path will also be full of challenges and these challenges too are extraordinary. Notwithstanding the recent adversities, there have been misadventures along the border which threw a challenge to the country. But whoever tried to threaten the sovereignty of our country right from the LOC to the LAC, the army of the country, our brave soldiers have given a befitting reply.

The whole country is full of zeal, driven by conviction and moving forward with unwavering devotion to protect India's sovereignty. The world has seen what our brave Jawans can do in Ladakh,, what the country can do to defend its resolve. Today, I pay obeisance to all the brave men and soldiers who sacrificed their lives for the motherland from the ramparts of the Red Fort.

Be it terrorism or expansionism, India is fighting against it valiantly. Today, the world's faith in India has become stronger. Recently, as a non-Permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, 184 countries out of 192 supported India. This is a matter of great pride for every Indian. This is an example of how we have made our place in the world. And this is possible only when India itself is strong, India is powerful and safe. With this thinking, work is being carried out on many fronts today.

My dear countrymen,

With our neighbouring countries, whether they are connected to us by land or by sea,,……….. Incomplete sentence in hindi

My dear countrymen,

We are establishing deep relations based on security, development and trust with our neighbouring countries whether connected by sea or land. India has been making continuous efforts to deepen its decades-old cultural, economic and social ties with its neighbouring countries.

The world’s one-fourth population lives in South Asia. We can create countless opportunities for the welfare of such a large population through cooperation and partnership. There is a huge and significant responsibility on the part of all the leaders of the countries in this region for the progress and development of such a vast population. I call upon all the people, political leaders, parliamentarians and intellectuals of South Asia to fulfil their responsibility. The peace and harmony in this entire region will be of immense help to the welfare of humanity. The interests of the entire world are intertwined with it.

Today, neighbours are not the only ones with whom we share geographical boundaries, but also those with whom we have close and harmonious relations. It is my pleasure that India has strengthened its relationship with all the countries in its extended neighbourhood in the last few years. The political, economic and human relations with the countries in West Asia have progressed manifold. Trust has increased manifold. The economic ties, particularly in the field of energy sector, are very important with these countries. There are a large number of people from India who are working in many of these countries. India is indebted to all these countries for their help to the Indian community during the Corona crisis by honouring India’s request. I want to personally thank them.

Similarly, our ASEAN countries in the east, who are our maritime neighbours, also hold special importance. India has thousands of years old religious and cultural ties with these countries. The traditions of Buddhism connect us with them. Today, India is strengthening its cooperation not only in the field of security but also in the areas of marine wealth with these countries.

My dear citizens, India has as much commitment to make its security apparatus & armies strong as it has for establishing peace & harmony. Mammoth steps have been taken in the field of defence production, to make self-reliant India. Recently, we have put a stop on the import of more than 100 military equipment. From missiles to light military helicopters, from assault rifles to transport aircraft - all will be made in India. Our Tejas is getting ready to equip itself as per the modern requirements, for putting up a show of its majesty, speed and strength. Our borders and coastal infrastructure play a pivotal role in national security. Today emphasis is being laid on connectivity in every direction, be it at Himalayan peaks, or the islands of Indian Ocean. New roads are being constructed everywhere, from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh, keeping in mind national security.

Dear citizens, we have such a vast coastline. Alongside, we have over 1300 islands. Keeping the importance of a few identified islands in mind, we are developing them very fast. You must have seen, last week, five days back, a submarine optical fiber cable project in Andaman and Nicobar Islands was dedicated to the nation. Andaman and Nicobar islands will now have the internet facility just like Delhi and Chennai. Soon we will move forth in connecting Lakshadweep islands in the similar manner.

We are aiming at providing high speed internet connectivity to Lakshadweep islands in the next 1000 days. Alongwith the security and development, the youth residing in the coastal area and near borders mind, we are working on developmental projects and taking steps, starting a big campaign.

About 173 districts in our border areas, our coastal areas share their boundaries with some or the other nation’s border or coastline. In the coming days, NCC would be extended in those border districts for the youth there. We will train around one lakh new NCC cadets from bordering areas, and we will work towards the idea that amongst those, one-third of them are our daughters. The Army will train these border area cadets. The cadets for coastal areas would be trained by the navy and wherever there is an air base, the air force will train those cadets. The border and coastal areas would get trained manpower for disaster management, and the youth would also get skill training for making their career in the armed forces.

Dear citizens, last year in my address from the Red Fort, I had said that the previous five years were for meeting the prerequisites, and next five years would be for fulfillment of aspirations. In last year itself, the nation has achieved many big and important milestones. On the 150th year of Gandhi’s birth anniversary, India freed its villages from open defecation. Be it the Citizenship Amendment Act for the refugees suffering due to their beliefs, reservation rights for Dalits/Backwards/SCs/STs/OBCs, historic peace agreement in Assam and Tripura, appointment of Chief of Defence staff for making the collective power of armies more effective, or the construction of Kartarpur Sahib Corridor in a record period, India has created history, it saw history being created, extraordinary feats were achieved.

Ten days ago, the construction of Lord Rama’s magnificent temple in Ayodhya began. A peaceful culmination has been achieved to the age-old issue of Ram Janmbhoomi. The citizens of India have shown an exemplary restraint and wisdom, and acted responsibly. It is simply unprecedented and a motivating factor for the future. Peace, unity and harmony- these are going to be the strengths of self-reliant India. This harmony, goodwill- this is the guarantee of prosperous future of India. We need to advance with this harmony. Each Indian must sacrifice something or the other in the magnanimous yajna for development.

India will move forward with new policy, new customs in this decade. Now banal won’t work. The time has gone when casual attitude used to suffice. We are no less than anyone in the world. We will thrive to be the best. For this, we need to work towards being best in manufacturing, best in human resources, finest in governance, and aim to make a headway while achieving the best in every field by the 75th anniversary of our Independence.

Our policies, processes, products- everything must be par excellence, the best, and then only the idea of ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat’ can be achieved. Today, again we need to take a resolve that we will fulfill the dreams of those who sacrificed their lives for our freedom. This pledge must be for 1.3 billion citizens, for our future generations, for their bright future, for the self-reliant India. We must take a pledge, we must take an oath, that we will contribute towards reducing the import dependence, we will empower our small-scale industries, we all will be vocal for local. we will innovate more, empower our youth, women, scheduled tribes, scheduled castes, specially differently-abled, economically weaker sections, villages, backward classes, and everyone.

Today India has made impossible possible at an extraordinary pace. With the same willpower, similar dedication, same passion, each Indian must move forward.

Soon we will be celebrating the festival of the 75th year of our Independence in the year 2022. We are just one step away. We must burn the midnight oil. This third decade of the 21st century should be the decade when we fulfill our dreams. Corona is a big hurdle, but not that huge that it can stop us from moving ahead on the victorious path of self-reliant India.

I can see the dawn of a new era for India, rise of new self-confidence, a bugle of echo of self-reliant India. Once again, I extend my heartiest best wishes of Independence Day to all. Let’s all come together, and raise our hands, and say with all the power at our command

On this solemn day of Independence, many greetings to all countrymen.

Today is also the festival of Raksha Bandhan. This centuries-old tradition expresses the love of brother and sister. I extend my best wishes to all the countrymen and all the brothers and sisters on this auspicious festival of Raksha Bandhan. May this festival filled with affection fulfil the hopes, aspirations and dreams of all our brothers and sisters, and bring affection in their lives.

Today, while the country is celebrating the festival of independence, people in several parts of the country are facing difficulties due to floods and heavy rainfall. Many have lost their dear ones. I express my condolences to them. The State Governments, the Central Government and other organizations like NDRF are striving day and night to ease the hardships and bring the situation under control.

Today, when we are celebrating this auspicious day of Independence, I pay my respects to all those who gave up their lives, who spent their youth in prisons, who embraced the gallows, who instilled the spirit of non-violence through Satyagraha for the freedom of the country. The country gained independence under the leadership of Bapu. Similarly, in the years since independence numerous people have contributed for the peace, prosperity and security of the country. Today, I also salute the people who have contributed to fulfil the hopes and aspirations of the people, for the development, peace and prosperity of Independent India.

After the formation of the new government, I am humbled once again with the opportunity to interact with you. It has not even been 10 weeks since the formation of this new Government. But even in a short ten-week period, efforts have been made in all fields and in every direction, new dimensions have been added. People have entrusted us to serve them so that they can achieve their hopes, expectations and aspirations. We are dedicated to your service with complete devotion, without wasting even a single moment.

To revoke Article 370 and 35A within 10 weeks is a significant step towards fulfilling the dream of Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel.

|
In just ten weeks, we made big ticket decisions like bringing about a law against Triple Talaq to protect the rights of our Muslim women, making major amendments in laws to counter terrorism and to make it more stringent and powerful; transfer of approximately 90,000 crores of rupees to the bank accounts of farmers who are beneficiaries of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana.

Our brothers and sisters from the farming community, our small entrepreneurs could never believe that they will ever be able to avail of pension schemes and live a dignified life even after they attain 60 Years, when they are physically weak and need some support. We have implemented a Pension Scheme to meet these needs.

Water crisis is a big concern these days. It is being predicted that an impending water crisis is staring us in the face. Anticipating such a situation, we have announced the formation of a new dedicated Ministry of Jal Shakti where the Centre and States will together develop schemes and policies to address issues of water crisis. 

Our country needs doctors in huge numbers along with robust health facilities. To fulfil this requirement we need new laws, upgraded infrastructure, new thinking and create new opportunities to motivate the youth to take up the medical profession. In view of this, we have formulated laws and taken important steps to bring transparency in Medical Education.

Now a days we come across incidents of child rights violation all over the world and India will not leave her children vulnerable. A much warranted stringent law to protect child rights was needed and has been enacted.

|
Brothers and sisters, you gave me an opportunity to serve you all for five years from 2014-2019. We took cognizance of the struggles faced by the common man to avail the basic facilities. Over the past five years, our government has been striving to provide the facilities to meet the daily needs of the common man. Special efforts have been made to facilitate those living in villages, and those who are poor, marginalized, victimized, exploited, deprived and tribals. We are working relentlessly in this direction to bring the nation back on track towards development. But times change. While 2014-2019 was a period of fulfilling your basic needs, the years from 2019 and beyond will see your aspirations and dreams getting fulfilled.

What should 21st Century India look like?How fast should it move? How extensively, should it work, what heights should it strive for- we are taking steps one after the other by preparing a roadmap for the next five years, keeping all these things in mind.In 2014, It was a new beginning for me. Prior to the election in 2013-2014, I travelled across the country and tried to understand the feelings of our countrymen. But everyone had disappointment written on their face, everyone had apprehensions.  People used to wonder if the country could change at all.  Can the country change with the change of Government? A sense of hopelessness had percolated into the minds of the common man. This was the result of their experience over a long period- hopes did not last long, they sank into the depths of despair very fast.But when in 2019, after five years of hard work, with only dedication to the common people, only my country in my heart, only my millions of countrymen in my heart - with this feeling we kept on moving, dedicated every moment for that. When we ran for the office again in 2019,  I was surprised. The Mood of the country changed. Despair had changed into hope, dreams got linked to resolutions, accomplishment was visible and the common man had only one determination that he can change his country. Yes it was the feeling that We too can change our country and that we cannot stay behind.

This feeling of the 130 crore citizens, this echoing of emotions gives us new the strength, new faith.

We had started with the mantra Sabka Saath- Sabka Vikas , but within five years, the countrymen have painted the entire mood of the nation with the color of Sabka Vishwas.  The Trust and confidence that everyone reposed in us over the last five years will inspire us to serve the nation with more vigour.

I have seen in the recent elections and I had felt then that this is an election in which no politician was contesting, no political party was contesting, neither Modi was contesting nor were friends of Modi contesting the election. It was the people of India who were contesting the election, 130 Crore countrymen were contesting the election. They were contesting for their own dreams. The real nature of Democracy could be seen in this election.

My dear countrymen, the solution to the problems - along with the period of dreams, determination and accomplishment - we have to walk together now. It is evident that sense of self-reliance develops when problems get solved. Solution to problems encourages speed of self-reliance. When self-reliance occurs, self-esteem develops  automatically and self-esteem has very strong potential. The power of self-respect is greater than anything and when there is a solution, resolution, capability, self-respect, then nothing can come in the way of success and today the country, with the feeling of that self-respect.

|
And today, with that self-respect we are determined to move forward to touch new heights of success. When we are trying to solve problems we should not think in isolation. There will be difficulties. Half-hearted efforts made with the aim of earning applause will not help in fulfilling the dreams of the country. We have to strive to remove problems from their roots.

You would have seen how our Muslim daughters and sisters used to live in fear with the sword of Triple Talaq dangling over their heads. Even if they were not victims of Triple Talaq, they were constantly haunted by the fear that they could be subjected to it anytime. Many Islamic countries abolished this evil practice long time back. But for some reason we were hesitant to give our Muslim mothers and sisters their due rights. If, we can abolish Sati Pratha, if we can enact laws to end female foeticide, if we can raise our voice against child marriage, if we can take strong steps against dowry system in this country, then why can’t we raise our voice against Triple Talaq? We have taken this important decision in the spirit of India’s democracy and constitution, to respect the thinking of Baba Saheb Ambedkar so that our Muslim sisters get equal rights; so that new confidence is generated in them; so that they also become active participants in the India’s development journey. Such decisions are not for political gains. They guarantee a lasting protection to our mothers and sisters.

Similarly, I will give another example. What was the reason behind revocation of Article 370 and 35A? This is the hallmark of this government. We do not avoid problems, nor do we let them fester. There is no time to delay or neglect problems. The work that was not done in the last 70 years has been accomplished within 70 days after this new government came to power. The abrogation of Article 370 and 35A has been carried out in both Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha by two-thirds majority. This means that everyone wanted this decision, but perhaps they were waiting for somebody to initiate the same and carry it forward. I have come to accomplish the task assigned to me by my countrymen. I work selflessly. 

We are moving forward with re-organization of Jammu and Kashmir. For 70 years every government made efforts to do something.

|
But the desired results were not achieved, and when desired results are not achieved, there is a need to think afresh and take new steps. It is our responsibility to see that the aspirations of the people of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh get fulfilled.  It is our collective responsibility to give new wings to their dreams. This responsibility has to be shouldered by all 130 crore of my countrymen.  To meet this commitment we have made endeavours to remove whatever hurdles were there in the way.  

The system that prevailed over the past seventy years had aggravated separatism and given birth to terrorism.   It had encouraged dynastic rule and in a way strengthened the foundations of corruption and discrimination.  We have to make efforts so that the women of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh get their rights.  We have to make efforts so that my dalit brothers and sisters living there, get the rights which they have been deprived of so far.   The rights enjoyed by the tribal people of India must also be available to my tribal brothers and sisters of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh.  There are several such communities, like Gujjars, Bakarwals, Gaddis, Sippies or Balties- all such communities must be empowered with political rights.  It is surprising that in Jammu & Kashmir there were legal restrictions on Safai Karamchari brothers and sisters. Their dreams were trampled upon.  Now, we have freed them from such shackles.  

When India was partitioned, crores of people had to leave behind their ancestral homes for no fault of theirs.  Those who settled down in Jammu & Kashmir got neither human rights, nor citizenship rights.  There are people from hill regions living in Jammu &Kashmir. We intend to take steps for their welfare as well.

My dear countrymen, peace and prosperity of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh can be an inspiration for India.  They can greatly contribute to India’s development.  We need to make efforts to bring back their glorious past.  The new system that has come into being after the recent step will create facilities that will directly benefit the people of the State.  Now, anybody in Jammu and Kashmir, like the rest of Indians, can reach out to the Government in Delhi. There will be no hurdles in between.  We have put in place such a system.  Our recent action to strike down Article 370 and 35 A has been welcomed by the entire country and also by people from all political parties of the country, without exception. Some have openly supported us while others give their tacit support.  But some in the corridors of power, in a bid to take mileage from vote-bank politics, have been talking in favour of Article 370.  The country demands an answer from those speaking in favour of Article 370, that if Article 370 and 35-A were so important.

If Article 370 was so crucial then why did ruling parties not make it permanent in the last 70 years despite having a majority? Why was it kept temporary? If there was so much of conviction, you should have moved ahead and made it permanent. This means that you knew all along that the decision taken was not right. But you did not have the courage and the will to amend it. Concerns about political future kept coming up. For me, the country’s future is everything, political future has no meaning.

Our constitution makers and great  personalities like Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel took these bold and important decisions even during those difficult times, keeping the goals of  national integration and political unification in mind. The exercise towards national integration was a successful one, but some difficulties have been faced because of Article 370 and 35A.

Today, as I address the nation from the Red Fort, I can proudly say that every Indian today can speak of One Nation, One Constitution and we are trying to fulfil Sardar Sahibs dream of Ék Bharat Shreshtha Bharat. So we must develop such systems which strengthen the country’s unity and serve as a cementing force, and this process must go on continuously. It should not be merely an interim measure but a continuous process.

Through GST we have fulfilled the dream of One Nation One Tax. Similarly, we successfully achieved the dream of One Nation, One Grid in the energy sector recently.

|
Likewise, we have developed the system of One Nation, One Mobility card and currently there is a nationwide debate about holding simultaneous elections in the country.  This discussion should be taken up in a democratic manner.  We will have to add many such new ideas to realize our dreams of Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat.

My dear countrymen, the country has to achieve newer heights, the country has to make its mark globally. For this we have to change the attitude towards poverty alleviation in the country. It should not be treated as a favour, but as oura dutiful contribution towards building a bright future for the country because we have to free ourselves from the clutches of poverty at any cost. A number of successful efforts have been made during the last 5 years to reduce poverty. We have achieved more success than before and at a faster pace. A little respect and support to the poor can boost their self-esteem and pull them out from the grips of poverty without any government help.

He will be able to defeat poverty with his own strength. It is my poor brethren who have the might to fight against any adversity. He fights against extreme cold with his clenched fists. We need to bow before his innate strength to face adversities and help in eliminating the challenges of his daily life.

Why should poor people not have  toilets, no electricity in the house, no house to live in, no water supply and no bank account. Why should they be compelled to go to the moneylender to take loans through mortgage? Come, let us make efforts to boost the self-respect, self-confidence and self-esteem of the poor.

|
Brothers and sisters, it is over 70 years since Independence. All governments have done a lot of work in their own way. Every government, irrespective of the party, be it the central or the state, has tried in its own way. But still it is a fact that today almost half of the houses in India do not have drinking water. People have to struggle to get drinking water. Mothers and sisters have to travel 2, 3, 5 km carrying the load of water on their heads. A large part of their lives is spent in struggling for water. Therefore, this government has decided to emphasize upon a special task and that is - how to ensure availability of water in every house. How does every house get water, pure drinking water?  And so I declare from the Red Fort today that in the days to come, we will take forward the 'Jal-Jeevan' Mission. The central and the state governments will jointly work on this 'Jal-Jeevan' Mission. We have promised to spend more than Rs. 3.5 lakh crores on this mission in the coming years.  Work should be done on water conservation, irrigation, rain-water harvesting, seawater or waste water treatment, and 'Per Drop, More Crop Micro Irrigation for the farmers. Water conservation campaigns should be launched, creating awareness in the common citizens about water, arousing their sensitivity so that they understand the importance of water; even the children should be taught about water conservation as part of their curriculum in their childhood. We must move forward with the belief that in the next five years we have to do more than four times the work that has been done in the last 70 years for water conservation and to revive the sources of water. We cannot wait any longer. The great Saint Thiruvalluvar ji had professed hundreds of years ago when perhaps no one would have thought of the water crisis and the importance of water.

And then Saint Thiruvalluvar ji had said NeerIndri Amiyadhu Ulganein  नीरिंडरी अमियदु  उलगनें  meaning that if water starts disappearing, then  nature’s processes get disrupted and eventually come to an end. This initiates the process of total destruction. 

I was born in Gujarat.  In North Gujarat, there is a jain pilgrim city called Mahudi. Approximately 100 years ago there lived a Jain saint who was born in a farmer’s family. He used to work in the fields but under the influence of Jainism. He became a Jain saint called Budhi Sagar ji Maharaj. He left behind some scriptures 100 years ago in which he shared a premonition that there will be a time when water will be sold in grocery shops. Can you imagine that the words of the saint written hundred years ago have actually become a reality now. What was predicted a century ago is now a ground reality, and today, we all are actually buying water from grocery shops. 

|
Dear countrymen, we are not to get tired in our efforts, nor shall we halt or hesitate in moving ahead. 

This campaign on Water conservation should not just remain a government initiative. It should become a people’s movement like our Swacchh Bharat Abhiyan. We have to carry forward this movement with the help the common man’s ideals, aspirations and efforts.

Dear Countrymen, our nation has reached a phase when we should be transparent about everything.

Time has now come that we should take challenges head-on. Sometimes decisions are taken keeping in mind political advantage but they come at the cost of  growth of future generation of our country. I would like to highlight the issue of population explosion in one Country from the aegis of the Red Fort today.

This rapidly increasing population poses various new challenges for us and our future generations.

In our society, there is a section which is very well aware of the consequences of the uncontrolled population growth. They all deserve accolades and respect. This is also their expression for their love for the nation.  Before having a baby, they take a well considered decision whether they will be able to take care of the child’s needs and fulfill his/her dreams by playing the role of a responsible parent.

Keeping these parameters in mind, this small sections of responsible citizens is self motivated to keep their family small. Not only do they contribute to the welfare of their family but also to the good of the nation.

They express patriotism. I would like all the people of our society to watch their lives closely and see how much they have served their families by limiting increase in family size. It is about how the family has moved forward in just a generation or two,  how the children have got education, how the family is free from disease, how well the family fulfils their primary needs.

We should learn from them. Before a child arrives into our family we should think  - have I prepared myself to fulfil the  needs of the child ? Or will I leave it dependent on the society? Will I leave the child un-nurtured? No parents can continue to give birth to children who are forced to live this type of life and therefore a social awareness is needed.

The people who have played this huge role need to be honoured, and by setting them as examples we need to inspire the segment of the society who are still not thinking on these lines. We need to worry about population explosion.

Governments also have to come forward through different schemes. Be it the State Government or the Central Government - everyone has to walk together to shoulder this responsibility. We cannot think of an unhealthy society, we cannot think of an uneducated society. In 21st century India, the ability to fulfill dreams starts with a person, starts with a family. If the population is not educated, not healthy, then neither the home nor the country can be happy.  If the population is educated, empowered, and skilled and has adequate means available to achieve the right ambience to fulfill their wishes and needs, then I think the country can fulfill these things.

My dear countrymen, you are well aware that corruption and nepotism have damaged our country beyond imagination and entered into our lives like termites. We are continuously trying to weed them out.  There have been successes also, but the disease is so deeply entrenched, the disease is so wide spread that we will have to keep putting in more efforts and that too at every level, not just at the government level, and we need to keep doing it continuously.

All work cannot be done at one go, bad habits are like chronic disease. Sometimes it gets cured, but sometimes it relapses. This too is a disease for which we have taken many steps, eliminating it by continuous use of technology. Every effort has been made to strengthen honesty and transparency at all levels.

You must have seen that immediately after formation of the Government, and also in the last five years the Government has removed many top officials. All such people creating obstacles were told that the country does not need their services anymore and they have been removed.

I believe that there should be change in the system, but at the same time there should be a change in the social fabric. Along with the change in the social fabric, a change in the mindset and beliefs of the people running the systems is also very essential. Then only the desired results can be achieved.

Brothers and sisters, the country has, in a way, matured after so many years of independence.

We are going to celebrate the 75th anniversary of Independence. This Freedom is as precious to us as our ethical values, attitudes and sensitivities. Whenever I hold meetings with officials I’d always mention, I do not talk about it publicly but today I feel like speaking out, I repeatedly exhort the officials that after so many years of Independence can we not do something about cutting down red tape and reduce the involvement of the Government in the daily life of the common man.

|
The meaning of an Independent India for me is to create an ecosystem that gradually reduces the involvement of govt. in the lives of its peoples. This will give people the choice to decide about their own destiny and embark upon whichever direction they wish in the national interest, for betterment of their families and in the pursuit of their dreams.

Citizens should not feel pressure of the government but at the same time during a crisis the government must not be found wanting. The government should neither be exerting nor wanting, but let us all move forward with our dreams. The government should be always standing by us, as a companion. In case the need arises, the people should be assured that Govt. is always there to back them up. Can we create such a system?

We have done away with several unnecessary laws and rules which had been rendered redundant. In the last five years I have abolished, practically, one redundant law every day. Perhaps the common man is not aware of it, - abolishing one obsolete law each day means almost 1,450 laws have been done away with an aim to reduce the burden from the common man’s life. The (new) government has only completed ten weeks into office, and already (another) 60 laws have been repealed with an aim to bring about ‘Ease of Living’. ‘Ease of Living’ is imperative for an Independent India and we are committed to focus on ‘Ease of Living’ and want to take it ahead.

Today, we have made much progress towards ‘Ease of doing business.’ We aim to reach the Top Five in the global ranking and for this there will be a need for several reforms; anybody wanting to set up a small business or industry, faces several small and big issues, - such as filling up several forms, going  from pillar to post, he has to make visits to scores of offices, but he still  doesn’t get the requisite sanction. In attempts to unshackle this intricate web, bringing reforms after reform, taking the Centre and States together, taking along the city and metropolitan municipalities, we have been able to achieve a fair degree of success towards ‘Ease of doing business.’

Across the globe there is a growing realization that such a large country as India, a developing nation, can dream big and make such a big leap. ‘Ease of doing business’ seems just a milestone; my ultimate objective is to achieve is ‘Ease of living’, - where a common man does not have to exercise himself to get Govt./Officials clearances, he gets his due rights easily and thus there is a need for us to proceed in that direction.

My dear countrymen, our nation must march forward, but the country cannot now wait much longer for incremental progress, we will have to take a big leap, we will have to change our thinking. To make India reach the Global Standards we need to build modern infrastructure.

Notwithstanding despondent attitudes, ordinary people always dream of a good system. They like good things; they have developed a taste for it. So we have decided to invest 100 lakh crore rupees for modern infrastructure in this time period. This will generate employment; will develop new systems and various aspirations will be met. Be it Sagarmala Project or Bharat Mala Project, modern railway stations, bus stations or airports, be it modern hospitals or world class educational institutions, we want to develop the entire infrastructure. Now the country also requires seaports. The ordinary people have changed and we have to understand that.

Earlier, if a decision was taken on paper that a railway station was going to be constructed in a particular area, there used to be a positive feeling for years together that a new railway station would be available somewhere nearby. Times have changed now. The ordinary citizens are no longer satisfied with just a railway station. They will immediately ask, “When will Vande Bharat Express come to our area?” Their thinking has changed. If we construct a very good bus station or five star Railway station, the people will not say “well done”. They will forthwith ask, “When will the airport be ready”? That means their thinking has changed. The people who were happy with just getting a railway stoppage are now asking, “It is ok, but when is the airport going to open here?”

Earlier people used to ask, “When will a metaled road be constructed in our area?” Now people ask, “Will the road be of 4-lane or 6-lane one?” They are not satisfied to metaled roads any longer. I think this is a very significant change for aspiring India.

Earlier, even on seeing the electricity poles lying on the ground people used to be happy, thinking that the electricity had reached them even if the pole had not been erected. But now even after the installation of transmission wires and electric meters, people ask “When will we get 24-hour electric supply?” They are no longer happy with just poles and wires.

Earlier, when mobile phones were just in vogue, people were content that mobile phone had finally arrived. But now they discuss about data speed. We have to understand this transformation of psychology and changing times. We have to move forward in many fields, with the Global Benchmark like modern infrastructure, clean energy, gas based economy, gas grid, e-mobility etc.

My dear Countrymen, generally the governments of our country are identified with what they have done in a particular area or for a particular community or group. Generally, the government and the people went by the yardstick as to how much a government has given or to whom it has been given. This was considered as good enough. May be it was the need of the hour and a compulsion.

But despite whatever, however, whenever or whoever may have received in the past, we now need to unitedly think  about what dreams we want to achieve as a nation. Time demands that we live fight and move ahead in unison to fulfil these dreams. Keeping this in mind we have set a dream target of building a five trillion dollar economy.  130 crore countrymen can move together even with small contributions. The target of 5 trillion dollar economy may appear difficult to some people.  They may not be wrong but if we don’t accomplish difficult tasks, how will the country moved ahead? If we don’t take up difficult challenges how will we develop a mind set to move forward? Psychologically also we must always aim high and that is what we have done. This is not just in the air. We had reached a 2 trillion dollar economy after 70 years of independence, after 70 years’ journey on the path of development we could achieve just a 2 trillion dollar economy. But within five years from 2014 to 2019 we reached a 3 trillion dollar economy i.e we added one trillion dollars. If we succeeded in taking such a big jump in just 5 years, then we can become a 5 trillion dollar economy in the next five years. This must be a dream of every Indian.

When the economy grows, it brings better standard of living for the people. Opportunities get created to fulfil the dreams of even of those at bottom. In order to create these opportunities we have to develop this mind set about the economic sector of the country.

When we dream to double the income of our farmers, when we dream that after 75 years of independence each family, including the poorest of the poor, should own a house, when we dream that on completing 75 years of independence each family must get electricity in their house, when we dream that on completing 75 years of independence each village of India must have optical fibre network, broad band connectivity and long distance education, these should no longer be seem to be dreams.

We must focus upon developing our maritime resources and blue economy. We should empower our fishermen community. Our farmers, who provide us food, may become energy givers. Why should they not become exporters as well, why should the produce of our farmers not dominate the international market? We want to move ahead with these dreams. Our country will have to boost its export. Let us make every effort to reach the global market.

Each district of our country has a potential equal to that of one country, each of our districts has the capacity equal to a small country in the world. We need to understand this power and channelize this potential. And why should each district not think of becoming an export hub?  Each district has its own handicraft and each district has its unique specialities. If some district is known for its perfumes then some other district may have saris as its distinct identity whereas some other district is known for utensils and the other district is famous for its sweets. Each of our districts has a diverse identity and potential for global market.  

We are trying to see how can we use zero defect zero effect in manufacturing for global markets. If we focus on exports by making the world aware of this diversity, and work towards capturing the world market, then the youth of the country will get employment. This will give great strength to our small scale and micro level industries. We have to increase that strength.

Our country can be a fascinating tourist destination for the world, but for some reason, we have not been able to do it as fast as we need to. Come, let all of us, the countrymen, take the decision to boost tourism in the country. As tourism grows, capital investment provides more employment opportunities. The country's economy also gets a boost.  People all over the world are ready to see India in a new way today. Let us think how we can attract tourists to our country from the world over, how we can strengthen the tourism sector and what arrangements should be made at tourist destinations. We should also talk about increasing the income of ordinary citizens, better education for them, new employment opportunities. There should be launching pads for the middle class people so that they can realize their dreams. Our scientists should have the best facilities and resources, our forces should have the best weapons and equipment that too indigenously made. I believe that there are many areas which can give India a new strength to become a five trillion dollar economy.

My dear brothers and sisters, today the country has a very favourable environment for achieving economic success. When there is a stable government, the policies are predictable and systems are stable, then the world also starts having confidence in you. The people of the country have shown this. The world is also watching India's political stability with great pride and respect. We should not let this opportunity go. Today the world is keen to do business with us. It wants to connect with us. Today, it is a matter of great pride for us that while controlling inflation, we are moving forward with an important equation to increase the growth rate. Sometimes the growth rate may increase, but inflation is not under control. Sometimes when the inflation is under control, the growth rate gets affected. But our government has not only controlled inflation but has also increased the growth rate.

The fundamentals of our economy are very strong. And this strength gives us confidence to move ahead. In the same way, by developing a system like GST, and bringing reforms like Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, we want to develop an environment of confidence. There should be increased production in our country, increased processing of our natural wealth, value addition, export of the value added products to the world. Why can’t we have a dream wherein every country in the world imports some or the other Indian product, wherein every district of India exports some product? If we take these two things into consideration, then we can also increase the income. Our companies and entrepreneurs also dream of getting access to the world market. By getting access to the world market, our investors will be able to enhance the status of India; our investors will be able to earn more; our investors will be able to invest more; our investors will be able to generate more employment. We are completely ready to encourage our investors to come forward for generating employment.

In our country, certain wrong beliefs have come into existence. We have to come out of those mindset. Those who create wealth for the country, those who contribute in the nation’s wealth creation are all serving the country. We should not doubt our wealth creators.

The need of the hour is to recognise and encourage the wealth creators of our nation. They should receive more honour. If wealth is not created, wealth cannot be distributed. Further, if wealth is not distributed we cannot uplift the poor sector of our society. Such is the importance of wealth creation for our country which we need to facilitate further.

Those who are making efforts to create wealth, according to me they themselves are an asset to the nation and must be empowered.

My dear Countrymen, today we are emphasising on peace and security along with development. Globally, countries are gripped with several insecurities. Death seems hovering in some or the other part of the world.

India has to play a vital role in reinstating world peace. We cannot remain silent spectators in the global environment. We are putting up a tough fight against terrorist organisations. In any part of the world, an act of terrorism should be regarded as an attack on humanity. Therefore, I urge all forces to unite against those who promote and give shelter to terrorist outfits. India should contribute in exposing these anti-humanitarian activities and is resolute to unite all world forces to end terrorism.

We want that India should play a crucial role in the war against terrorism. India should unite all forces to expose those who give shelter to terrorists, those who encourage terrorism and those who export terrorism.

Some terrorist organisations have not only targeted India, but are also damaging our neighbouring countries. Bangladesh and Afghanistan are also grappling with terrorist activities. In Sri Lanka, sadly, innocent people have been killed en-masse inside a church. This is such a heart wrenching event. Hence, we all have to unite and act proactively to bring security, peace and harmony in this sub-continent. 

Our friendly neighbour Afghanistan is also going to celebrate its 100th year of independence, four days from now.  I would like to extend my heartiest greetings to them on this auspicious occasion.

It is our clear policy that those who are spreading fear and fostering violence must be razed to the ground. We have made this clear through our policies and strategies to curb all such malafide intentions. We have no inhibitions. Our army, border security forces and security agencies have done a commendable job. They always stand tall in their uniforms and guard us from all adversities. They have martyred their lives to ensure a bright future for us. I salute and I pay my homage to them. It is important that we take timely steps towards reforms.

You must have noticed that deliberations are on since a long time to bring reforms in military infrastructure, armed forces and military resources. Previous governments have also discussed the same. Several commissions have been formed and all the reports have brought to light the same issues. 

There is hardly any difference, but this has been stated repeatedly.  There indeed is coordination between our Navy, Army and Air Force. We can be proud of the arrangement of our armed forces.  Any Hindustani can be proud of Indian Military. They also strive for modernity in their own way.

But the world is changing today, the scope of war is changing, the nature of war is changing. It is becoming technology driven; in the circumstances India too should not have a fragmented approach. Our entire military power will have to work in unison and move forward. Things cannot move smoothly if anyone from the Navy, Army and Air Force is a step ahead from the other two forces, while the other two are lagging behind. All the three should move simultaneously at the same pace. There should be good coordination and it should be relevant with the hope and aspirations of our people.  It should be in line with the changing war and security environment in the world and today I want to announce an important decision from Red Fort. The subject experts on the issue have been demanding this for a long time. Today we have decided that we will now have a Chief of Defence Staff- CDS and after formation of this post all the three forces will get effective leadership at the top level. The CDS System is a very important and compelling task in our dream to reform the strategic pace of Hindustan in the world.

My dear countrymen, we are lucky that we are born in such a period, we are living in such a period, when we have the ability to do something.  Sometimes it comes to my mind that when we were fighting for freedom, great men like Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev, Rajguru were competing for their sacrifice. Under the leadership of Mahatma Gandhi, freedom fighters were going door-to-door, to awaken the country to realize their dreams of independence. We were not born at that time. We did not get a chance to sacrifice for the country, but we have definitely got a chance to live for the country now. And it is a privilege that this period is like this, this year is very important for us. This is the festival of 150th birth anniversary of Bapu Mahatma Gandhi.

We feel blessed to have such opportunity. 75 years of our Independence and the remembrance of those who sacrificed for the country, inspires us to do something. We should capitalise on this opportunity. We, 130 crore of countrymen, have to move further, to achieve the dreams of Mahatma Gandhi, the dreams of freedom fighters of the country.  We should make the 75 years of independence and 150 years of Gandhi into a festival. This is a great opportunity for our inspiration.

I had spoken about Swachhata in 2014 from this Red Fort. I am confident that within next few weeks of 2019 itself India will declare itself Open Defecation Free. States, Villages, Municipalities, Media, everyone has started Mass-Movement regarding ODF. The government was nowhere to be seen, people participated in the mass movement and the results are quite evident.

My dear countrymen, I would like to put forward a small request to you. On this 2 October can we make India free from single- use plastic? Let us move around, form teams and move out from home, school, college.

Remembering revered Bapu, we should move out of home collecting single-use plastic from homes, streets, chowks, and drains. Municipalities, Municipal corporations, Gram Panchayat should make arrangements to collect single-use plastic. Can we take first big step on 2nd October, towards making India free from single-use plastic?

Come my countrymen, let us take this forward.

I will request start-up organizations, technicians and entrepreneurs to see what we can do to recycle this plastic? Plastic is being used in making highways. Many such remedies can be there. But to get rid of such problems we have to initiate mass movement but at the same time we have to think of the alternate systems. I will request all shopkeepers along with many sign boards in your shop please also put another one exhorting customers not to use plastic bags; that they should instead bring their own cloth bags or buy cloth bags for carrying their goods. Let us create an environment. We generally give gifts to people on Diwali. Why not pack those gifts in cloth bags this year and every time? If people go to market with cloth bags, that will be an advertisement for your company too. If you give a diary or calendar nothing will happen. But if you give a bag, that will be a medium of your advertisement. It should be a jute bag. It will help farmers. The cloth bag will help famers. These are all small things. It will help poor widows who are into sewing. Our small steps can change the lives of ordinary people and we have to work towards that.

My dear countrymen, whether it is a five trillion economy dream or the dream of a self-reliant India, we are following the principles of Mahatma Gandhi. Mahatma Gandhi’s ideals are relevant even today. So we have to take forward our ‘Make in India’ mission. Shouldn’t made in India products be our priority? Let us decide whatever is produced and available in our country should be our priority. We have to give stress on local products for lucky tomorrow; we have to go for local for bright future. Whatever is produced in the village should be given priority. If it is not available in the village we have to go beyond that- to Tehsil, to the district and then to the state level. I don’t think that one has to go outside the state to meet one’s requirements. Our rural economy will get a boost; our small entrepreneurs will get a boost; our traditional things will get a fillip.

Brothers and sisters we like mobile phones, we like to send whatsapp messages, we like to be on Facebook-twitter. But we can help country’s economy through these means. Technology is useful for the people who know its usefulness. Technology is helpful for the development of a modern India. Why shouldn’t we move towards Digital payment? Today we are proud that our RuPay card is accepted in Singapore. In the near future RuPay card will be accepted in more countries. Our digital platform is spreading steadily. Shouldn’t we stress on digital payment in villages, small shops and small shopping malls? For the sake of honesty, transparency and to make our country’s economy strong let us move towards digital payment. If you go to villages you will generally see boards put up by traders saying “only cash, no credit please”. I will urge the businessmen to display another board: “say yes to digital payment and no to cash”. We should create an atmosphere like this. I will urge the banking sector and the people from the business world to give emphasis on these things. 

In our country the bulk of middle class and higher middle class are increasing. This is a good thing. People go to various countries as a tourist with their family once or twice in a year. It is good that our children get exposure.  But today I want to urge all such families to think over whether they will want their children to know their country as well, when it celebrates the 75th Year of its Independence, which could be achieved after many great men and women had sacrificed their lives?  Are there any parents who do not want their children to be emotionally connected with the country’s soil, its history, its air and water?   Do they not want their children to gather new energy from all these?  We have to move ahead in right earnest.  No matter how advanced we become, if we get cut off from our roots, we can never survive.  Today from the ramparts of Red Fort, I am asking you one thing. This is to generate employment of the youth, to build an image of India in the world and to tell the world what India is capable of.   It is time you decide that before 2022, when India will be celebrating the 75th Year of its Independence, we take our families to at least 15 tourist destinations in the country.  We may face some difficulties in those places but still, you should go.  There may not be good hotels. But, sometimes such difficulties also bring opportunities along.  Our children will learn what their country is, when they visit such tourist destinations.  The people who can build facilities will also reach there and that will generate employment.  Why don’t we develop 100 good tourist destinations, why shouldn’t there be target of developing 2, 5 or 7 top class tourist destinations in every state?  North-East of India has huge natural resources but how many universities make that part of the country as their tourist destination?  You do not have to spend much, neither do have you need to spend a lot of time; in 7 to 10 days you can visit within the country.

 A new world will come into being in the places you visit.  You will get bliss in the life once we Indians visit the tourist spots of North-East, foreigners will also follow suit.  But, think over when we go out of the country and the people there ask, whether you have seen that temple in Tamil Nadu and we say ‘’No’’; then how does it feel.  They would be surprised and say that they being foreigners, have visited that temple but you being an Indian have not seen it so far.   So, before we go abroad we must know our country well. 

Now, I want to ask something from my farmer brothers. For farmers, for my countrymen this country is their motherland.  As we chant ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai” our hearts are filled with new energy.

The word “Vande Mataram’’ enthuses our hearts with a wish to sacrifice for the country.  A long history beckons us. But have we ever cared to think about our motherland’s health?  The way we are using chemical fertilizers and pesticides, it is damaging the health of its soil.  As a farmer, as a child of this soil, I have no right to damage its health.  I have no right to make my mother India sad nor do have I right to make her sick.

We would soon complete 75 years since our Independence.

Revered Bapu showed us the way. Should we not cut down the use of chemical fertilizer in our fields by 10% or 20% or 25% and if possible should we not launch a Muktikar Abhiyan (campaign)?. This would be a great service to the nation. This would be a great step in saving our Mother Earth. Your endeavour in saving our mother earth will also get blessings of those who dedicated their lives chanting Vande Mataram in order to fulfil the dream of achieving freedom for our motherland. Therefore I appeal to you as I am fully confident that my countrymen will definitely be able to achieve this.  My farmers will fulfil this request of mine because I have full trust in them.

My dear brothers and sisters, professionals of our country are at a commanding position globally. Their potential is very well recognised. People respect them. Be it space, be it technology, we have achieved new heights. It’s a matter of happiness of us that our Chandrayaan is moving speedily towards that part of the moon where no one has ever reached. Such is the mastery of our scientists.

Similarly, our presence was much less in the field of sports. Today young sons and daughters of my country in the age group of 18 to 22 are making India’s tricolor fly in various sports stadia. How proud that feels! Our sportspersons are earning laurels for the country.

Dear countrymen, we have to take our country forward. We have to transform our country. We have to make our country reach newer heights and we have to do this collectively. The government and the people have to achieve this collectively and jointly.  Our 130 crore countrymen have to do this.  Prime Minister of the country is also a child of this country like you and he also is a citizen of the country. We all have to work unitedly for this.

In the coming days about 1.5 lakh wellness centres and health centres will have to be set up in rural areas. Setting up one medical college for every three Lok Sabha constituencies will make us realize the dream of our youth becoming doctors. Houses for more than 2 crore poor people have to be built. We have to supply potable drinking water to 15 crore houses in rural areas, construct 1.25 km roads in rural areas. Each village has to be provided with Broad Band connectivity and connected with optical fibre network, also a network of more than 50000 new start-ups has to be raised. We need to move forward with so many dreams.

And, therefore, brothers and sisters, we the countrymen have to collectively take our country forward with these dreams in mind and for this 75 years of independence is a very big motivation.

130 crore countrymen have their dreams, their challenges. Each dream and each challenge has its own importance. It is not that some is more important and the other is less important. It may not be possible for me to delve at all the topics during this speech. So, whatever I could speak today and whatever I could not speak are equally important. If we move forward, we should keep in mind that we have to take our country forward.

75 years of Independence, 150 years of Gandhi and 70 years of India’s Constitution has been completed for realising the dream of Baba Saheb Ambedkar. We are also celebrating 550th  Parv of Guru Nanak Dev ji this year. Let us move ahead following the teachings of Baba Saheb Ambedker and Guru Nanak Dev ji as we have to build a better society and a better country as per the expectations of the whole world.

My dear brothers and sisters, we know that our targets are as high as the Himalayas, our dreams are even more than the innumerable stars. But we also know that even skies cannot check the flight of our courage.

This is our resolve, our potential is beyond measure just like the Indian Ocean. Our efforts are holy like the flowing Ganges and are ever continuing. Above all these things our values draw inspiration from our ancient culture and the penance of our sages and saints. The sacrifice and hard work of our countrymen is our motivation.

Come on, let us move ahead to build a new India keeping these ideals and resolves in mind. Fulfilling our responsibilities with a new confidence and a new resolve to build a new India should be our mantra. Let us together take our country forward with this single expectation, I once again bow to everyone who lived, fought, died for the country.

Jai Hind.

Jai Hind.

Bharat Mata ki Jai.

Bharat Mata ki Jai.

Vande Mataram

Vande Mataram

Thank you very very much.

My dear countrymen, I convey my best wishes to all of you on this auspicious occasion of Independence Day. Today, the country is brimming with self-confidence. The country is scaling new heights by working extremely hard, with a resolve to realize its dreams. Today’s dawn has brought a new spirit, a new enthusiasm, a new zeal and a new energy with it.

My dear countrymen, in our country, there is a Neelakurinji flower which blooms once every 12 years. This year, Neelakurinji is in full bloom on the hills of Southern Nilgiri like the Ashok Chakra (the wheel of Ashoka) in the Tricolour on our Independence Day.

My dear countrymen, we are celebrating this festival of independence at a time when our daughters from the states of Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Manipur, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, have come back after circumnavigating the seven seas. They have returned after unfurling the Tricolour in the seven seas, colouring their waters with the hues of our Tricolor.

My dear countrymen, we are celebrating this festival of independence at a time when the Mount Everest has been conquered many times; several brave-hearts and many of our daughters have unfurled the Tricolour atop the Mount Everest. However, during this festival of independence, I will remember our young tribal children from remote forest areas, who have unfurled the Tricolour on the Mount Everest, further enhancing its glory.

My dear countrymen, the sessions of the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha have concluded recently, and you would have seen that the proceedings were conducted in a very orderly manner, and in a way, they were entirely dedicated to the cause of social justice.

Displaying utmost sensitivity and alertness, our Parliament has made the social justice framework stronger to protect the interests of the weaker sections of society – be it a Dalit, a deprived or exploited person or women.

The demand to confer constitutional status on the OBC Commission had existed for years. This time, our Parliament has accorded Constitutional status to this Commission, and in doing so, has made an efforts to protect the interests of the Backward and the Most Backward classes.

Today, we are celebrating the festival of independence at a time when news reports have brought in a new consciousness in the country. Today, every Indian, living in any nook and corner of the world, takes pride in the fact that India has become the sixth largest economy of the world. We are celebrating this Independence Day in a positive atmosphere amidst such positive chain of events.

Under the leadership of respected Bapu, lakhs of people sacrificed their lives and spent their youth in prisons to win freedom for our country. Many great revolutionaries embraced the gallows bravely. Today on behalf of my countrymen, I pay homage to those brave freedom fighters and salute them from the bottom of my heart. Our soldiers and Paramilitary forces lay down their lives to uphold the dignity of the tricolour that inspires us to hold our heads high through life and death. Our Police forces serve the country day and night to provide safety and security to the people.

From the ramparts of the Red Fort with the Tricolour as witness, I salute all the soldiers of the army, the para-military forces and the police for their dedicated service, valour and hard work. My best wishes are always with them.

These days, we are receiving the news of good rainfall as well as floods from different parts of the country. I want to reassure the people who have lost their loved ones and are in distress, that the country is with them in their hour of crisis to help them overcome this difficult situation. I share the grief of those who have lost their near and dear ones in this natural calamity.

|
My dear countrymen,

The next year will mark 100 years of the Jallianwallah Bagh massacre. Our masses had sacrificed their lives for the country's freedom at a time when atrocities had crossed all limits. The Jallianwallah Bagh incident reminds us of the sacrifices made by the brave hearts and is an inspiration to us. I salute all the brave people from the depths of my heart.

My dear countrymen,

Our freedom has come at a price. Under the leadership of Bapu and the revolutionaries, many heroes, many satyagrahis, brave men and women and youth participated in the freedom struggle of the country. While striving for the country’s freedom, they suffered imprisonment and spent the prime of their youth in jails, yet they nurtured the dreams of a glorious India even through all the suffering.

Many years ago, the national poet from Tamil Nadu, Subramaniam Bharti translated his vision of the country into words

“एल्‍लारुम् अमरनिलई आईडुमनान

मुरईअई इंदिया उलागिरिक्‍कु अलिक्‍कुम”.

– ( “Ellarum amarnillai aaedumnaan

muraiai India ulagirakku allikkum”).

What was the dream that he envisioned after Independence? Subramania Bharti said that India will show the way for the entire world to break free from every form of bondage.

My dear countrymen,

After Independence, in order to realize the dreams of such great personalities, to meet the aspirations of freedom fighters and to fulfill the hopes and expectations of the citizens of the country, India drafted an inclusive Constitution under the leadership of respected Baba Saheb Ambedkar ji. This inclusive Constitution is the harbinger of a resolve to build a New India. It has brought with it some responsibilities for us and has also set a few boundaries on us. Our Constitution has been guiding us in realizing our dreams by stating that every section of the society and every geographical part of India must get an equal opportunity in the quest to forge ahead.

|
Dear brothers and sisters,

The Constitution also guides us to draw inspiration from our Tricolor. It indicates that we should ensure justice for the poor, equal opportunity for all to move ahead, our lower middle class, middle class and higher middle class should not face any obstacle in their growth, the Government should not come in the way, social systems should not curb their dreams. We should create an enabling environment that provides them maximum opportunities to grow and blossom, and they should be allowed to flourish without limitation.

Be it our elderly, differently-abled, our women, marginalized or deprived people, or our Adivasi brethren living in the forests, everyone must get an opportunity to grow, as per their hopes and aspirations. We aspire for an India that is strong and self-reliant, a nation that maintains a steady pace of progress, an India that keeps scaling new heights; an India that enjoys goodwill in the world. Not only this, we want that India should also shine in the world – we want to build such an India.

My dear countrymen, I have shared my vision for TEAM INDIA earlier too. When 125 crore countrymen become partners, then each and every citizen joins us in the progress of the country. When 125 crore dreams, 125 crore resolves, 125 crore efforts, move in the right direction to attain desired goals then nothing is unattainable.

Dear brothers and sisters, with utmost humility and respect, I would like to share that in 2014, 125 crore citizens did not rest after voting for the Government. The citizens did not stop at government formation, but worked to build the nation. They have come together, were together and will continue to be together. I feel that this synergy of 125 crore active citizens from more than 6 lakhs villages is the real strength of our nation. Today, we celebrate the birth anniversary of Shri Aurobindo. He said something very pertinent – What is Nation? What is our Motherland? It is not a mere piece of land, not just an identity, nor is it a figment of imagination. The Nation is a repository of a great force manifested through many organized units to give it a concrete shape. It is this thought of Sri Aurobindo which is uniting the country and taking it ahead. That we are actually moving ahead is difficult to comprehend unless we know from where we started. If we don’t look at from where we began our journey, it will not be possible to assess how far we have come. Precisely for this reason, if we consider 2013 as the base year and take into consideration the work that has been done in the last four years, you will be surprised to see the speed at which the country is moving and the pace at which the progress is being made. Take the case of toilets. If we had continued with the same speed of constructing toilets as in 2013, then to achieve 100% target would have taken decades.

If we talk about providing electricity to villages on the basis of work done in 2013, it would have taken a couple of more decades to accomplish this work. If we talk about providing smoke free LPG gas connection to the poor and to the poor mothers, at the rate in which it was done in 2013, it could not have been completed even in a 100 years. If we had maintained the speed of 2013 in laying optical fibre network in villages, then we would not have been able to accomplish the task for generations together. We will strive to maintain the same pace of development.

Brothers and sisters, the country has huge expectations, the country has a lot of requirements and to fulfill those, it is imperative for the central government and the state governments to work together steadily and continuously. Today, we can see a sea change in the country although the country is same, the soil is same, the wind is same, the sky is same, the sea is same, the government offices are same, the files are same and the decision making process remains the same. However, the country has been experiencing change for the last four years. A new spirit, new energy, new resolve, new determination and new inspiration is taking the country forward. This is why the country has doubled the pace of construction of the highways. The construction of new houses has gone up four times in the villages. The food production in the country today has reached an all-time high; there has been a record production of mobile phones; the sale of tractors has touched a new high. On the one hand, a record number of tractors are being bought by our farmers today, at the same time, the country has witnessed a record number of aeroplane purchases since independence. Toilets are being built in schools; new IIMs, new IITs and new AIIMS are being established. Giving momentum to Skill Development Missions, the country is setting up new centers in small towns. At the same time, our tier-2 and tier-3 cities are being flooded with start-up enterprises, bringing regeneration.

Brothers and Sisters, Digital India is now making inroads into our villages. As a government sensitive to the needs of people, efforts are being made to turn Digital India into a reality. At the same time, work is also progressing with the same dedication to compile dictionary and common signs for my differently-abled brothers and sisters. While on the one hand, our farmers are working on modern agricultural techniques like micro irrigation, drip irrigation and sprinklers, on the other hand, 99 big closed irrigation projects have also been revived. Our soldiers reach out to provide relief and rescue operations during natural calamities. While our soldiers display exemplary courage in reaching out to rescue the people in difficulties, they have also shown a steely resolve to carry out surgical strikes and vanquish our enemies.

|
Take a glance at the vast canvass of the development in our country- from one end to the other, one can witness the progress of the country that is moving ahead with new energy and enthusiasm. I hail from Gujarat. There is a saying in Gujarati ‘Nishan Chuk Maaf Lekin Nahi Maaf Nichu Nishan’ which means one should have big aims and dreams. However, for that, one has to strive hard and be answerable. But if the aims are not big, targets are not far-sighted, decisions are also not taken. Development comes to a halt. That is why my dear brothers and sisters, it is necessary for us to move ahead with big aims and resolve. When targets are vague, when the spirit is not strong, then important decisions in our social life also get held up for years. Take for instance the case of MSP - economists, farmer organizations, farmers as well as political parties had been demanding, that farmers should get an MSP which is one and a half times of their investment. The matter was debated for years, files moved to and fro, and but was stuck. Finally, we took the decision. We took a bold decision of giving the farmers the MSP which is one and half times their investment.

There was unanimity on GST. Everyone wanted GST but they could not arrive at a decision because while on the subject, they were thinking in terms of their vested interests and whether this will translate into electoral gains. Today, with the help of small traders, their open mindedness and their attitude of accepting the new, the country has implemented GST. A new found confidence has been generated in the business community. The small entrepreneurs, small businessmen who faced teething difficulties in adopting GST, accepted the challenge and the country is now moving ahead.

Today, we have enacted laws on Insolvency and Bankruptcy to strengthen the banking sector. Who opposed them earlier? Taking decisions requires conviction, force, confidence and complete dedication to the good of the common man. Why was the Benami property law not enforced earlier? The Benami property laws are implemented only when there is courage and a determination to do something for the country. The Jawans of our defence forces were demanding one-rank one-pension for several decades. They were not resorting to agitation because they are disciplined, but nobody was paying heed to their voices. Somebody needed to take a decision in this regard. You gave us the responsibility of taking this decision and we fulfilled it positively.

My dear brothers and sisters,

We are not the kind of people who work in the interest of the party. We are capable of taking tough decisions because national interest is topmost in our priority.

My dear brothers and sisters,

In this era of global economy, the entire world is looking at every development in India - big or small, with deep interest and hope and expectations. You may recall the comments made about India prior to 2014, by eminent international institutions, top economists of the world, and by those considered authorities on the subject. There was a time when the Indian economy was considered risky by experts. But now the same experts and the institutions have expressed confidence that our reform momentum has strengthened our economic fundamentals. How have things changed? There was a time when the world used to comment about red tape in India but now they talk about Red Carpet. We have reached the 100th spot in Ease of Doing Business ranking. Today, the entire world is looking at this achievement with pride. There was a time when the world perceived India as a country with ‘policy paralysis’ and ‘delayed reforms’. Old newspaper clippings confirm this view. However, today the world opinion about India has changed and they talk about our focus on reform, perform and transform. This follows from a series of time bound policy decisions. There was a time when the world counted India among the ‘fragile five’. They were concerned that India was pulling down the world economy but now their tone has changed as India has become a multi-trillion dollar investment destination.

My dear brothers and sisters,

While engaging with India, the investors used to bemoan the lack of infrastructure, the blackouts due to power shortage and the bottlenecks. The same set of experts who had earlier dubbed India as a ‘sleeping elephant’ are now saying that ‘sleeping elephant’ has woken up and started running. Economists and international institutions are saying that India will provide momentum to the world economy for the next three decades and will spur the growth of the world.

Today, India's stature at International fora has risen greatly. India’s voice is being heard in every organization of which she is a member. India is playing a crucial role in shaping up the discourse and providing leadership to these organizations. We are raising our voice at international fora.

My dear countrymen, for years, we waited seeking membership to some international organizations, but today, our country has become a member of innumerable organizations. Today, India offers a ray of hope for those who are concerned with environmental issues and global warming. Today India has become the flag bearer of International Solar Alliance in the world. Today, every country of the world is keen to welcome any Indian stepping on its soil. A new consciousness is visible in their eyes, when they look at an Indian. The strength of the Indian passport has multiplied manifold. This has instilled a new self-confidence, fresh energy and a resolve in every Indian to move ahead with new hope.

My dear countrymen, if an Indian is in trouble or distress in any part of the world, he can rest assured that his country is with him at every step. Several recent incidents bear testimony to this fact.

My dear countrymen, just as the perspective of the world towards India has transformed, similarly, there was a time when the news from India's North-Eastern part used to be dominated with content that one wished were not there. However, today my dear brothers and sisters, North-East is coming up with positive and inspiring stories. North-East today is shining in the field of sports.

|
My dear brothers and sisters, today we are receiving news from North-East that the last village has been electrified and the entire village danced the whole night. We are hearing more such news from the North East about highways, railways, airways, waterways and information ways (i-ways) coming to the region. The work of installing electric transmission lines across the North-East is progressing at a rapid pace. Today youth from the North-East are establishing BPOs in the region. Today, new educational institutions are being set up and the North-East India is becoming the new hub for organic farming. North-East is going to host the Sports University.

Brothers and sisters, there was a time when the North-East used to feel that Delhi is very distant. Within four years, we have brought Delhi to the doorsteps of North-East.

Brothers and sisters, today, about 65% of the population in the country is below 35 years of age. We are proud of our country's youth. Our country's youngsters have completely transformed the meaning of all standards of the economy. They have infused new colours to the country's standard of progress. There was a time when only big cities used to hog all the limelight. Today, our country is talking about Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities and paying attention to the youngsters engaged in modern agriculture in the rural areas. The youth of our country has completely transformed the nature of jobs. Today the youngsters of the country are taking the nation to greater heights by exploring and engaging in new fields such as Start-ups, BPOs, E-commerce, mobility etc.

My dear countrymen, 13 crore Mudra Loans has been a major achievement. More so, if it includes 4 crore youth who have taken the loan for the first time with the aspiration to become self-reliant and are promoting self-employment. This in itself is a great example of the changing ecosystem. In an endeavor to realize the dream of Digital India, several Common Service Centres are being managed by young girls and boys in more than 3 lakhs villages today. These centres are rendering “on-the-click global connect”/”anytime-anywhere connectivity” services to every citizen in the villages with the optimal utilization of Information Technology.

Talking about infrastructure, whether it be speed of rails, roads, I-ways, highways or a new airport, our nation is witnessing fast paced development.

Brothers and Sisters, scientists of our nation have also left no stone unturned in bringing immense glory to our country. In the global context, as well as fulfilling the requirements of the country, it is a matter of great pride that our scientists launched more than 100 satellites in one go leaving the world astonished. That’s the capability of Indian scientists which has made the world stand up and applaud. Successful launch of Mangalyaan in the very first attempt itself stands as testimony to the expertise and endeavors of our scientists. This feat of successful in orbit launch of Mangalyaan speaks volumes about the capabilities of our scientists. In days to come, thanks to the futuristic vision, innovativeness and creativity of our scientists we are confident of launching NavIC, the first indigenous Indian Regional Navigation Satellite System (IRNSS). This navigation system will guide fishermen and other citizens through Satellite signals.

My dear countrymen, today from the ramparts of the Red Fort, I am delighted to share a good news. Our country is undoubtedly progressing fast in its space missions. However, we have a dream; our scientists have a dream. We have resolved that by 2022, when India celebrates 75 years of Independence or maybe even before that, certainly some of our young boys and girls will unfurl the Tricolour in space. With Mangalyaan our scientists have proved their capabilities. I feel proud to announce that very soon as a part of our Manned-Space mission, we shall be sending an Indian into space. This will be done through the pursuit of our esteemed scientists, and we will proudly find ourselves as the fourth such nation to have launched a successful Man Space Mission.

|
Dear brothers and sisters, I would like to congratulate our scientists and technicians for such a great accomplishment. Today our warehouses are filled with food grains. I sincerely acknowledge the role of our agricultural scientists, cultivators and farmers in successfully steering the green revolution across decades.

But my brothers and sisters, times have changed now. Our farmers and the agricultural markets have to face global challenges and competition. As the population increases, land falls short. Hence, the changing times demand that our agricultural methods should also be modern and more scientific; we have to take the process forward with technology. Precisely for this reason we are focusing on change and bringing in modern methods in the agricultural sector.

We have a vision to double the farmers’ income by the 75th year of Independence. Some people have doubts, which is quite natural, but we are determined. Hum makkhan par lakeer nahi, patthar par lakeer kheenchne waale hain (We don’t promise things lightly, we mean to keep our word). To keep our promises, we have to work hard, we have to plan and we have to put our heart and soul into fulfilling it. So in order to realize this promise by 75th year of Independence, we want to move along with the farmers in that direction by bringing modernity and diversity in agricultural sector. We want to bring value addition right from seeds to marketing. We want to modernize. Some new crops are giving record yields. For the first time we are moving towards agriculture export policy so that our farmers can also face global competition with confidence. Today we can see a new agricultural revolution. Organic farming, Blue revolution, sweet revolution and solar farming have opened up new vistas.

It is a matter of great satisfaction that today our country is the second highest fish producer in the world and is on the verge of reaching the top position soon. The export of honey has doubled. The sugarcane farmers are happy that ethanol production has tripled. It means, in rural economy other businesses allied to agriculture are also as important as agriculture. We are developing village resources by spending crores of rupees through women self help groups.

Khadi is associated with the name of respected Bapu. I want to humbly submit that the sale of khadi products since independence has doubled. This has generated employment for the poor.

My brothers and sisters, the farmers of my country are emphasizing on solar farming now. Apart from farming, they can earn money by selling power generated through solar farming. The people who spin charkha, the people who are associated with handloom are also earning their livelihood.

My dear brothers and sisters, economic development in our country is important, but more than anything else, human dignity is supreme. Without human dignity, no country can move forward in a balanced way. So to protect human dignity, we have to move ahead with those schemes which will ensure respectable lives for people. The policies, traditions and intentions should be such that ordinary people, including the poorest of the poor can get a chance to live with equal dignity.

So we have provided gas connection to the poor through Ujjawala Yojana. We have provided electricity to the poor through Saubhagya Yojana. We are emphasizing on moving ahead with the concept of ‘Shrameva Jayate’.

Only yesterday, we heard the President’s address to the nation. He described in great detail the Gram Swaraj Abhiyan. Whenever, there is talk about Government, it is said that policies are framed but there is no last mile delivery. The President described well how this campaign that was launched in Delhi has now spread to 65000 villages in aspirational districts, to the huts of the poor; how it is working in the backward villages.

My dear countrymen, when I talked about cleanliness from the Ramparts of Red Fort in 2014, some people made fun. Some of them even said the Government had many things to do, why is it wasting its energy on an issue like cleanliness. But my dear brothers and sisters, in a recent report the WHO has said that because of the cleanliness campaign three lakh children were saved. The credit for saving lives of three lakh children goes to every Indian who was a part of this campaign. Saving the lives of three lakh children of the poor is surely a great humanitarian act and the world bodies are recognizing it.

Brothers and Sisters, Mahatma Gandhi’s 150th Birth Anniversary falls next year. Bapu during his lifetime attached greater importance to cleanliness than even to freedom. He used to say we got our freedom because of Satyagrahisand Swachchata (cleanliness) will come from Swachchagrahis. Gandhiji trained Satyagrahis and this inspired us to prepare Swachchagrahis. In the coming days, when we will be celebrating his 150th Birth Anniversary, crores of Swachchagrahis will offer Karyanjali (offerings of work) in the memory of Bapu. In a way, they will fulfil his dreams which we are realizing now.

|
My Brothers and Sisters, it is true that because of cleanliness, lives of three lakh children have been saved. But no matter how happy a middle class family is and how well-to-do it is or how poor it is, once a family member falls sick, the whole family suffers. On occasions generations are afflicted with illnesses.

The Government of India has decided to launch Pradhanmantri Jan Arogya Abhiyan so that the poor man, the common man gets free treatment for serious diseases and he can be admitted to big hospitals free of cost. The Pradhanmantri Jan Arogya Abhiyan and Ayushman Bharat Yojana will cover 10 crore families of the country. In the coming days, the people from lower middle class, middle class and upper middle class income groups can also access health care services from these two programs. There is a provision of giving five lakh rupees per annum health assurance for each family. It means about fifty crore citizens belonging to ten crore families will benefit. We are going to give this benefit to our countrymen. This is a technology driven system which is transparent. As such, an ordinary citizen will not face any difficulty as technology technological tools have been built for this purpose.

Over the next four, five, six weeks from today, this technology will be tested across the country to make it fool proof. On the 25th of September, the birth anniversary of Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyaya, the Pradhanmantri Jan Arogya Abhiyan will be launched throughout the country. No poor person of the country will have to face difficulty in dealing with diseases. Nor he would have to borrow money from a moneylender paying interest. His family will not be destroyed. And it will also open new avenues of employment for the youth, for the middle class families in the health sector. New hospitals will be built in the tier-2 and tier-3 cities. They will require medical staff in large numbers. A lot of employment opportunities will also be generated.

Brothers and sisters, no poor person wants to lead a life of penury. No poor person wants to die poor. No poor person wants to pass on his poverty as a legacy to his children. Throughout his life, he struggles to come out of poverty. There is only one way to end this problem- through the empowerment of poor people.

In the last four years, we have laid emphasis on empowerment of poor people. It has been our endeavour to empower the poor people. An international organization has released a very good report in the recent past. According to the report, five crore poor people in India have crossed the Poverty Line in the last two years.

Brothers and sisters, when we carry out the work for the empowerment of poor people; and when I talked about Ayushman Bharat Program, then very few people realized the massive size of the scheme, – 10 crore families or a population of 50 crore people, very few people were able to grasp what it means. If I combine the population of America (USA), Canada and Mexico, then the number of beneficiaries of Ayushman Bharat Program will be nearly the same. If I take into account the population of entire Europe, then nearly the same number of people are going to get the benefits of this Ayushman Bharat scheme in India.

Brothers and sisters, we have formulated several schemes for empowerment of the poor. Although many schemes have been formulated in the past, middlemen, the people who take cuts, used to take away the cream of the scheme. The poor people didn’t get what rightfully belonged to them. Money was being paid from the exchequer, the schemes existed on paper, and the country continued to be robbed. The Government cannot keep its eyes shut. And, at least I can never keep my eyes shut to this kind of thing.

Brothers and sisters, therefore it is extremely essential to create confidence in the minds of the common man by eliminating the deformities in our system. And whether it is the state governments or the centre or whether these are the local bodies of self-rule, we all have to work together. And we will have to take it forward. You will be surprised to know that since the time we have been engaged in this campaign for cleansing the system, and plugging leakages; there were six crore bogus beneficiaries who had never been born, who never existed on the earth but the money was being sent in their names - somebody was the beneficiary of Ujjwala Scheme, some beneficiary of the gas connection scheme with a duplicate gas connection; somebody was taking benefits through bogus ration cards; somebody was the beneficiary of scholarship scheme; someone else was the beneficiary of pension scheme. How difficult it would have been to remove these six crore names! How many people would have faced problems because of this ! The person who was never born, the person who doesn’t exist anywhere on the earth, but the money was pilfered on his name by using bogus names.

|
This government has put an end to it. We have taken steps in the direction of curbing corruption and putting an end to the entire system of black money.

Brothers and sisters, what are the consequences of it? Rs.90,000 crores is not a small amount. Almost Rs.90,000 crores, which used to go into the hands of wrong people for wrong activities, is now in the nation's treasury, now being used for the welfare of common man.

Brothers and sisters, why does it happen? Our country works for the pride and honour of the poor people, but what do these middlemen do? You must be aware of the fact that wheat is sold at Rs. 24-25 (per kilo) in the market, but the government provides it to the poor at only Rs.2 on ration card after buying it at Rs.24-25. Similarly, rice which is sold at Rs.30-32 in the market is purchased by the Government at this rate and provided to the poor at Rs.3 on ration cards. This means if anyone steals 1 kg of wheat on a bogus ration card, he automatically gains Rs.20-25. If gets rice in this manner, he will get Rs 30-35. That's why this entire business of bogus names and IDs had been going on. When a poor person used to approach the shop with his ration card and request grain, the shopkeeper would say that the stock was over. That grain then used to be diverted to another shop and the poor had to purchase the grain of Rs.2 from the other shop at Rs.20-25. The right of the poor used to be snatched away. Therefore, this bogus system has now been uprooted.

Brothers and sisters, crores of poor people in our country get food at Rs.2 and Rs.3. The government is spending generously for the same but the credit does not go to the government. Today I want to specifically tell the honest taxpayers that when you have your food with your family, for a moment kindly ponder over what I am about to say. I want to touch the hearts of the honest taxpayers. I want to salute them. I want to reassure the honest taxpayers that all the schemes that are in operation are run by your money. The honest tax payers gain good fortune because the poor get to eat from the taxpayers’ money. Therefore, it is the result of your honest paying of taxes when you have your meal with your family, 3 poor families are also able to have their meals at the same time.

Friends, an atmosphere of non-payment of taxes was being created. However, when a person, even if he is in an AC room, comes to know that 3 poor families are being served with his tax money, it is highly satisfying for his soul. This is the most virtuous task for a person. Brothers and sisters, today, the country is moving ahead celebrating the festival of honesty. Till 2013, i.e. for the last 70 years, there were 4 crore people who were paying direct taxes. However brothers and sisters, today this figure has increased to almost 6.75 crore. Look how far we have come from 3, 3.5 or 3.75 crore to 6.75 crore. Are not these glaring figures a true reflection of honesty? This is an example that nation is treading the path of honesty. In the past 70 years, 70 lakh enterprises were included in the Indirect tax net. However, in the last one year alone, after the introduction of GST, the figure has catapulted to one crore and 16 lakh. Brothers and sisters, today everyone in the country is participating in celebrating the festival of honesty. I salute all those who are embracing transparency and honesty. I wish to reassure those who want to step forward. You are making a contribution in the nation’s progress. Your problems are our concerns. We stand with you, for we have to take the nation forward through everyone’s contribution. Therefore, we will not tolerate black money and corruption. Come what may, we shall not retract from the path of honesty, as we all have seen how they have corroded and ruined the nation. Thus, you would have seen that power-brokers are not to be seen in the power corridors of Delhi.

Dear countrymen, times have changed. Some people sitting in their drawing rooms used to claim that they will change the policies of the government, or influence in them in a negative way have been silenced. Our doors are closed to them.

Dear countrymen, we have rooted out nepotism and affiliations. We have strongly condemned favoritism and bias. Strong action is being taken against corrupt officers. More than three lakh dubious companies have been closed down, and restrictions have been imposed on their directors. Today, we have introduced IT interventions for online transactions to ensure transparency. There was a time when seeking an environmental clearance meant facing rampant corruption. We have made the process transparent and online. Any person can access it. We can work in a way that the nation’s resources are utilized judiciously. It is also a matter of immense pride for women of the country that today we have three women judges in the Supreme Court providing justice to the nation. This is the first time after independence that the Union Cabinet has the maximum representation of women ministers.

|
Dear Countrymen, today I wish to share some wonderful news with my brave daughters. On this occasion, I declare with pride the grant of Permanent Commission for the appointment of women officers in Short Service Commission of Indian Armed Forces. The process will be transparent and similar to the selection process of male officers. This is a gift from my side from the ramparts of the Red Fort, to the daughters who are in uniformed services and have dedicated their lives to the nation. The nation salutes the patriotic fervor and national commitment displayed by young girls who are our national pride. Women are equally contributing in building a strong India. The nation is experiencing the pride, contribution and potential of our mothers and sisters.

From agricultural fields to the sports arena, our women are holding the Indian Tricolor high. From Sarpanch to the Parliament, our women are contributing to the development of the country. From schools to armed forces everywhere the women of our country are marching ahead. But while our women are valiantly moving ahead in such large numbers, we also come across gruesome ugliness. We sometimes see demonic forces posing challenges to women’s power. Rape is painful, and we, the countrymen, the people should feel many times more pain than the pain borne by the victim. Brothers and sisters, we have to free this society from this demonic mentality. The law is taking its own course. Recently, rapists in a case from Katni in Madhya Pradesh were sentenced to death after just five days of trial. Similarly, in Rajasthan, rapists were sentenced to death after a few days of trial. More such news gets published, the more such people with demonic mentality will get scared. We have to publicize such news. People should know that rapists are being sent to the gallows. There is a need to beat this mentality; there is a need to curb this thinking, and there is a need to stop this aberration. Brothers and sisters, this mentality breeds unpardonable crimes. Rule of law is supreme for us and there cannot be any compromise on that. Nobody can be allowed to take law into their own hands. In the family, in schools, colleges, our children of the new generation, our small innocent children should be nurtured in such an environment that they learn appropriate values. They should learn to respect women. They should know that this is the right way to live. We have to instill this feeling and values in our families.

Brothers and sisters, I want to reassure my Muslim sisters. Triple Talaq has spoiled the lives of Muslim daughters of our country. Those who have not faced the Talaq are spending their lives under pressure. We wanted to bring a legislation in this session of Parliament itself to free Muslim women from this evil system. But there are some people who are obstructing the passage of this Bill. But I want to assure my Muslim mothers, sisters and daughters that I will not stop till they get justice. I will fulfill your aspirations.

My beloved countrymen, our army, paramilitary forces, police, intelligence agencies are the source of strength for our country’s internal security. They have created a sense of security in us. They have ensured a peaceful environment. A new confidence has been generated because of their sacrifices, dedication and hard work.

Brothers and Sisters, we used to hear about incidents of violence every now and then from the North East, there were reports of insurgency. We used to hear about the incidents of bomb blasts and firing. But today the two states of Meghalaya and Tripura have seen withdrawal of the Armed Forces Special Power Act (AFSPA) which was in force for three or four decades. This was possible because of efforts of our security forces, because of actions taken by the state Governments, because of development projects executed by the Centre and the state Governments and the efforts to connect people there with the national mainstream. Tripura and Meghalaya are now out of the purview of the Armed Forces Special Power Act. Several districts of Arunachal Pradesh have also been brought out of the purview of the Armed Forces Special Power Act. Now, it is in force only in a few districts.

Left Wing Extremism, Maoism have been bleeding the country. Violent incidents, people fleeing from homes and hiding in forests were a matter of daily occurrence. However, today because of continuous efforts by our security forces, launching of development projects and efforts to connect the people with national mainstream, left-wing extremism which affected 126 districts has now been reduced to 90 districts. The work on finding a solution to put an end to left wing extremism from those districts is progressing rapidly.

Brothers and Sisters, regarding Jammu & Kashmir, the path shown by Atal Bihari Vajpayeeji is the right one. We want to move ahead on that road. Vajpayeeji said Insaniyat, Jamhuriyat, Kashmiriyat (humanism, democracy, Kasmiriyat)–with these three basic elements we want to develop Jammu & Kashmir. Whether it is Ladakh or Jammu or Srinagar valley. We want balanced development where an ordinary person’s aspirations are fulfilled, infrastructure is strengthened; we want to move ahead with brotherhood in our hearts. We do not want to move on the road of bullets and abuses, we want to move ahead with love and affection with the Kashmiri people who have stood with us in patriotic fervor.

Brothers and Sisters, irrigation schemes are progressing. The work of building IIT, IIM and AIIMS is speedily going on. The work of reclamation of Dal Lake is also going on. The biggest thing is that during the past one year village headmen from Jammu and Kashmir in large numbers have been meeting me with the request to hold Panchayat elections there. The elections could not be held for some reason or the other. I am happy that the villagers of Jammu and Kashmir will have this opportunity in the coming months. A system in which villagers will be able to look after their villages will be in place soon. Now, the Government of India gives huge funds which go directly to the villages and this will help the village headmen to take their villages on the path of development. That is why we are moving forward in the direction of holding Panchayat elections and election to City Councils.

Brothers and Sisters, we have to take the country to new heights. Our motto is “Sab Ka Saath Sab Ka Vikaas’. There is no discrimination based on yours or mine and no nepotism. And that is why we are going ahead with this aim and today standing under this tricolour, once again I want to reiterate the resolve for which we are ready to sacrifice ourselves.

Let every Indian have a house of his own - Housing for All. Every house should have electricity connection, power for all. Every Indian should be free from smoke in kitchen and that is why there is the scheme for Cooking Gas for All. Every Indian should have enough water to meet his needs and that is why there is the scheme for Water for All. Every Indian should have toilets and therefore Sanitation for All. Every Indian should be skilled, so Skill for All. Every Indian should get good and affordable health services, so Health for All. Every Indian should feel safe, every Indian should be insured, hence ‘Insurance for All’. Every Indian should get internet services so, Connectivity for All; we want to take the country forward by following this mantra.

|
My dear brothers and sisters, people tell many things about me too and whatever may be said, I would like to publicly admit certain things today. I am impatient as several countries have gone ahead of us, I am restless and impatient to take my country ahead of all these countries.

My dear countrymen, I am worked up and I am restless because malnutrition has been a major hurdle in the development of the children of our country. It remains a huge bottleneck. I am restless to rid my country of malnutrition.

My countrymen, I am agitated so that a poor person can get an appropriate health cover. I am restless so that an ordinary citizen of my country can combat diseases and remain healthy.

Brothers and sisters, I am restless, I am restless to ensure that our citizens can have a quality life, so that they can have the opportunity to live with ease and so that there may be an all-round improvement.

My dear countrymen, I am restless, I am agitated and I am also impatient for my country to lead the fourth industrial revolution, the revolution that is based on knowledge, the revolution which will be led by those who have IT skills. I am impatient for my country to lead it.

My dear countrymen, I am restless because I want that my country should take maximum advantage of its capabilities and resources and we can move forward in the world with a sense of pride.

My dear countrymen, we want to move ahead. We cannot accept stagnation, we cannot be standstill and it is not in our nature to bend before anybody. This country will neither come to a standstill, neither will it bend and nor will it get tired. We have to achieve greater heights, we have to keep moving ahead.

Brothers and sisters, we are the inheritors of the rich heritage of our ancient legacy of Vedas. And that legacy is due to our self-confidence, and we want to carry forward the legacy.

My dear countrymen, we don’t want to only dream about the future, but aspire to scale new heights in the future. We want to move forward with the dream of being at the top. And that is why my dear countrymen, I want to instill a new hope, a new zeal and a new belief (in you) because the country can achieve its dreams with it. And that is why my dear countrymen…

Greetings from the ramparts of the Red Fort on the auspicious occasion of Independence Day.

Nation is celebrating the Independence Day with the festival of Janamashtmi today . I can see a number of Bal Kanahiyas here. We are fortunate to have in our cultural and historical heritage from a Sudarshan Chakradhari Mohan to Charkhadhari Mohan.

From the ramparts of Red Fort, on behalf of our 125 crore countrymen, I bow and pay respects to all those men and women who have sacrificed their lives, who have undergone immense sufferings and made sacrifices for the independence, glory and pride of the country.

Sometimes, natural calamities are a big challenge for us. A good monsoon contributes immensely to the prosperity of the country. However, due to climate change, sometimes it turns into a natural calamity.  Several parts of the country faced natural calamities recently. Besides our innocent children lost their lives in a hospital. Our 125 crore countrymen stand shoulder to shoulder with them in this hour of crisis and grief. I assure the countrymen that in this hour of crisis we shall leave no stone unturned to ensure the wellbeing of all.

My dear countrymen, this year is a special year for independent India. We commemorated 75 years of Quit India Movement last week. This year we are also commemorating the centenary of Champaran Satyagrah and the Sabarmati Ashram. The centenary of Lokmanya Tilak’s call   “Swaraj is my birth right” falls this year as well. The year marks the 125th Anniversary of the Ganesh Utsav which led to the rise of community awakening through the celebrations. It inspires us to dedicate ourselves to a cause for the country.  A collective resolve of the citizens was visible during 1942 to 1947 across the country which forced the British to Quit India within a span of five years. We will have to exhibit the same resolve from now  on in the 70th year of independence to 2022, the 75th year of independence.

We now have five years before we reach the 75th year of our independence. Our united resolve, strength and determination to work hard remembering the memory of our great patriots will help us to build an India of their dreams by 2022. Therefore, we have to take the country forward with a pledge to build a New India.

|
We are aware of the power of the collective resolve, hard work, sacrifice and devotion of our 125 crore citizens. Lord Krishna was immensely powerful, but it is only when the milkmen came out with sticks in his support that they could lift the Govardhan parvat. When Lord Rama had to go to Lanka, the monkeys of vanar sena came to his help, Ramsetu was built and Lord Rama could reach Lanka. Then there was Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi, who empowered his countrymen to weave the fabric of independence with cotton and spinning wheel.

The collective resolve and strength of the people got freedom for our country. No one is small or big. We have in our memory the story of squirrel which became an agent of change. That’s why we must remember that no one among the 1.25 billion people is either small or big – everyone is equal.

If each one of us, irrespective of where he belongs to, strives with a new resolve, a new energy, a new strength, we can change the face of the country with our combined strength in the 75th year of our independence in 2022. It will be the New India – a secure, prosperous and strong nation. A New India where there is equal opportunity for all; where modern science and technology play an important role in bringing glory for the nation in the global arena.

Our freedom movement is linked to our sentiments. We know it well that at the time of the freedom movement, the teacher who was engaged in teaching, the farmer who was tilling his land, the laborer who was working – all of them knew in their hearts that whatever they were doing, was contributing towards the independence of the country. This idea is a great source of strength. In the family, food is prepared everyday but it becomes ‘prasad’ only when it is offered to the deity.

We are working, but if we do so in the spirit of working for the glory of mother India, for the divinity of mother India, if we do it to rid our countrymen of poverty, if we do it to properly weave our social fabric, if we discharge our duties with feelings towards the country, if we do it with a sense of devotion to country, if we do our work by dedicating it to the country, then the achievements will be much more. That is why we should move forward with this spirit.

January 1, 2018 will not be an ordinary day – those born in this century will start turning 18. For these people, this is a decisive year of their lives. They are going to be the creator of the destiny (Bhagya Vidhata) of our nation in the 21st century. I heartily welcome all these youth, honour them and offer my respects to them. You have an opportunity to shape the destiny of our country. A proud nation invites you to become a part of its developmental journey.

My dear countrymen,

When Arjuna was posing a lot of queries to Lord Krishna in the battlefield of Kurukshetra, then Krishna told Arjuna that you achieve goals as per your thinking and beliefs. We have a strong determination, we are committed for a brighter India. We, who have grown up with a state of hopelessness, have to reject the feeling of despair and must now march ahead with confidence.

We have to leave this ‘Chalta Hai’ attitude. We have to think of ‘Badal Sakta Hai’- this attitude will help us as a nation. We should have this confidence that with sacrifice and hard work and a resolve to do something, we will get necessary resources and the ability to do it and then a big transformation will happen, and our resolve will convert into accomplishment.

Brothers and sisters,

It is natural for our countrymen to think of our safety and security. Our country, our military, our brave-hearts, our uniformed forces, be it any force, not just the army, air force or navy, all the uniformed forces, whenever they were called upon to do so, they showed their valour, their strength; our brave-hearts never turned their back in making the supreme sacrifice. Be it Left-Wing-Extremism, be it terrorism, be it infiltrators, be it the elements fomenting trouble inside our country- the uniformed forces of our country have made extreme sacrifices. And when the surgical strike was carried out, then the world had to acknowledge India’s capability and strength.

My dear countrymen,

India’s security is our priority. Be it our coast line or our borders, the space or the cyberspace, India is capable of ensuring its own security and strong enough to ward off any threats against the country.

My beloved countrymen,

Those who have looted the nation and looted the poor are not able to sleep peacefully today. Due to this, the confidence of the hardworking and honest person is increasing. An honest man now feels that his honesty matters. Today, we are celebrating a festival of honesty and there is no place for dishonesty. This gives us new hope.

The law against Benami property was lying in limbo for years. Now, we have come up with a law against Benami Property. In such a short time, the government has confiscated Benami properties worth over Rs.800 crores. When these things happen, the common man develops faith that the country is for the honest persons.

The ‘One Rank – One Pension’ policy for our defence forces was stuck up for 30-40 years. Our government implemented it. When we fulfill the aspirations of our soldiers, then their morale goes high and their resolve to protect the nation grows manifold.

The country has many states and a Central Government. GST has shown the spirit of cooperative federalism and has given competitive cooperative federalism a new strength. The success of GST can be attributed to the hard work that has been put in to make it a success. Technology has made it look like a miracle. The global community is surprised how we were able to roll out GST in such a short time. It is a reflection of our capability and helps in building the confidence and faith of the future generations.

New systems are emerging. Today roads are being built at twice the speed. The railway tracks are being laid at double the speed. More than 14 thousand villages that were hitherto shrouded in darkness even after Independence, have been provided with electricity. Bank accounts of 29 crore people have been opened, more than 9 crore farmers have got Soil Health Card. More than 2 crore poor mothers and sisters are no longer using the fuel wood and using LPG gas stove NOW. The poor tribals have gained faith in the system. The person at the last mile of development now joins the mainstream and the nation is marching ahead.

More than 8 crore loans have been sanctioned without guarantee to the youth for self-employment. The interest on bank loans have been lowered. Inflation is under control. If a person belonging to the middle-class wants to build his house, then he gets a loan at a lower rate of interest. In this way, the country is moving forward and people are joining the movement.

The times have changed. The government is determined to do all it says, like doing away with the interview process.

In the labour sector alone, even a small businessman had to fill up to 50-60 forms, but we have now made it more convenient by reducing it to just 5-6 forms. I can provide many such instances of Good Governance, simplifying the process of Governance. By reiterating this we have enforced faster decision making. And that is why 125 crore countrymen have been able to repose faith in our governance.

|
Dear Countrymen,

India today has gained in stature across the globe. You will be happy to know that we are not alone in our fight against terrorism. Many nations are proactively supporting us.

Be it Hawala, or any inputs related to terrorism, the global community is supporting us with critical information. We have joined hands with other nations in the combined fight against terrorism. I extend my heartfelt greetings to all those countries who are standing in solidarity with us and acknowledge our prowess.

For the development and progress of Jammu & Kashmir, its prosperity, and fulfilment of the aspirations of the citizens, not only the J&K government, but we as responsible citizens also have a responsibility. We are committed to restore the state to its former glory so as to experience the paradise that it was, once again.

On Kashmir there is rhetoric and politics. But I am clear in my belief on how to win the war against separatism, which is spread by a handful of people. The problem will be solved neither by abuse or bullets – it will be solved by embracing all Kashmiris. Such is the legacy of 125 crore Indians. Hence, neither by abuse nor by bullets, change will come by embracing all. And we are moving forward with this resolve.

We shall take strict steps against terrorism. There is no question of being soft on terrorism or terrorists. We have been asking the extremists to join the mainstream. Democracy provides an equal opportunity and rights to be heard for all. The process of engagement can take place only by their joining the mainstream.

I deeply appreciate the efforts of security forces in curbing the Left Wing extremism which mobilized a lot of youth from these regions to surrender and joined the mainstream.

Security forces are keeping a tight vigil on our borders. I am delighted to announce that today the Indian Government is launching a website which will give an account of the valour of the Gallantry Award winners.  A portal is also being launched which aims to provide the entire details of these brave hearts who have brought pride to the nation. The story of sacrifices made will certainly inspire the younger generations.

With the help of technology, we are trying to promote honesty and transparency in the country.  Our fight against black money will continue; our fight against corruption will continue. With the intervention of technology, slowly we are trying to link Aadhaar with the system.  We have been successful in infusing transparency in the system. People from around the world have appreciated this model and have been studying it.

A common man living thousands of kilometres away can now supply his products to the Government. He doesn’t need any middle man. We have launched a portal called “GEM”. The Government is making procurement through this portal. We have been successful in bringing transparency at various levels.

Brothers and Sisters,

Implementation of Government schemes are gaining momentum. When a work is delayed, it is not only the project that is delayed. It is not a matter of expenditure of money. When a work is stalled, the poor families are the ones who suffer the most.

We can reach the planet Mars within 9 months; we are capable of achieving that.

I review Government Projects every month. A specific project came to my notice. It was a 42-year old project. 70-72 kilometres of Railway lines were to be laid, but the project was lying in limbo for the last 42 years.

My brothers and sisters,

When a country that is capable of reaching Mars within 9 months, how is it possible that it is not able to lay 70-72 Kilometres railway lines for 42 long years. It sets in doubts in the minds of the poor. We have taken care of all these things. We have been striving to bring in the changes through technology. Whether it is Geo-Technology or Space-Technology, we have tried to link all these technologies to bring in transformation.

You must have seen that there was a time when tension prevailed between the Centre and the States for Urea and Kerosene. The Centre was like an elder brother while the State was treated like a younger brother. I have been a Chief Minister for a long time and I know the importance of states in the development of the country. I know the importance of the Chief Ministers and the State Governments. Hence , we laid emphasis on Co-operative Federalism. Now we are moving towards a Competitive Co-operative Federalism. You must have seen that we are taking all the decisions together.

You may recall that one of our Prime Ministers in his address from the ramparts of Red Fort had talked about the poor state of affairs of the power supply companies of the country. He expressed his concerns over the issue. Today with the “UDAY” Yojana, we have worked together to resolve the issues with these power companies. It is a concrete example of federalism in its real sense.

Whether it is GST or Smart City Project, whether it is Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, or construction of toilets, or ease of doing business, all these are being accomplished by working together shoulder to shoulder with the States.

My dear fellow countrymen,

In the New India, the biggest strength is democracy. But we have reduced our democracy to mere ballot boxes. However, democracy cannot be confined only to ballot boxes.  Hence our resolve is to see to it that we have a democracy in New India, where people are not driven by the system, rather the system is driven by the people. Such a democracy should become the identity of New India and we want to move towards that direction.

Lokmanya Tilak Ji had said “Swaraj is my birthright”.  In Independent India our Mantra should be “Good Governance is my birthright”. ‘Suraja’ or Good Governance should be our collective responsibility.  The citizens should fulfil their duties and the Government too should discharge its responsibilities.

When we move from “Swaraj” to “Suraja”, the citizens do not lag behind. For example, when I called upon the countrymen to give up gas subsidy, the nation responded as a whole. I have spoken about cleanliness. Now people are joining hands from every part of the country to take up this cleanliness drive forward.

When demonetization was announced, the world was surprised. People thought that this was the end of Modi. But the way our 125 crore countrymen had shown patience and faith, we were able to take one after another step in our drive against corruption.

With this new practice of people’s participation, our effort to take the country forward with people’s involvement will help us to reach our goal.

My dear fellow countrymen,

Lal Bahadur Shastri had given the slogan “Jai Jawan Jai Kisan.”  Our farmers have not looked back since then. They are now producing record harvests and scaling new heights despite facing natural adversities. There has been a record production of pulses this year.

My dear brothers and sisters,

India never had the tradition to import pulses and if it had to import on rare occasions, it was only a few thousand tons. This year when they produced 16 lakh tons of pulses to provide nutrition to the poor, the government took the historic step of encouraging them by buying their produce.

Pradhan Mantri  Fasal Bima Yojna has provided a security cover to our farmers. Three years back, this scheme which was running under a different name earlier, covered only 3.25 crore farmers. Now over a short span of three years more farmers have been brought under its ambit. The number is soon going to touch the 5.75 crore mark.

Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojna aims to meet the demand of water of the farmers. If my farmers get water, they can produce rich harvests from their fields. That is why I had made some announcements from the ramparts of Red Fort on the last Independence Day. Out of those, we have completed 21 projects and remaining 50 would be completed soon. I have resolved to complete 99 big projects. By completing those 99 big projects before 2019, we shall fulfill our commitment. We cannot change the lot of our farmers until we hand hold him from procuring seeds to ensure that his produce reaches the market. For this we need infrastructure and supply chain. Every year vegetables, fruits and grains worth lakhs of crores of rupees are wasted. In order to change the situation, the government has encouraged Foreign Direct Investment in food processing sector. Government of India has launched ‘Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sampada Yojna’ to encourage infrastructure building. Due to this, systems shall be put in place that will ensure hand-holding of the farmers from supplying seeds to marketing his produce. Such arrangements will usher in a new change in the lives of crores of our farmers.

With the changes in demand and technology, the nature of jobs in our country has been changing. The Government has launched several new initiatives in the employment related schemes and also in the manner in which the training is imparted for the development of human resource according to the needs of the 21st century. We have launched a massive program to provide collateral free loans to the youth. Our youth should become independent, he should get the employment, he should become the provider of employment. Over the past three years, ‘Pradhanmantri Mudra Yojana’ has led to millions and millions of youth becoming self-dependent. It’s not just that, one youth is providing employment to one, two or three more people.

In the education sector, we have taken an important step to grant the universities freedom from restrictions to make them the world class universities. We have asked 20 universities to decide their own destiny. The government will not interfere in their functioning. Besides, the government is willing to provide funds up to Rs. 1,000 crores.  We have appealed to them and I am confident that the education institutions of our country will certainly come forward and make it a success.

Over the last three years, we have set up 6 IITs, 7 new IIMs and 8 new IIITs and we have also done the groundwork for linking the education with job opportunities.

My mothers and sisters, the women in the families seek employment in large numbers.  And therefore we have taken a very important step to reform the labour laws to provide them the employment opportunities in the night also.

Our mothers and sisters are an integral unit of our families. Their contribution in making our future is extremely important. And that is why we have decided to increase the paid maternity leave to 26 weeks from the earlier 12 weeks.

In the context of women empowerment, I’d like to honour those sisters who have been forced to lead a very difficult life due to ‘Triple Talaq’. There is no recourse for them, and such victims of ‘Triple Talaq’ have launched a massive movement in the country.  They shook the conscience of the intellectual class of the country, the media of the country also helped them and a movement against ‘Triple Talaq’ was started in the  country. I heartily commend those sisters who have launched this movement, who have been fighting against the ‘Triple Talaq’ and I’m confident that the country will help them in this struggle. The country will help these mothers and sisters in securing this right. India will fully support them and they will ultimately achieve success in this very important step in the direction of women empowerment; I am fully confident about this.

|
My dear countrymen,

Sometimes in the name of faith, some people due to lack of patience end up destroying the social fabric. The country is governed by peace, harmony and unity. The poison of casteism and communalism can never benefit the country. This is the land of Gandhi and Buddha, we have to move forward taking everyone along. This is a part of our country’s culture and tradition. We have to successfully carry it forward, and that is why in the name of faith, violence cannot be allowed.

If something happens to a patient in a hospital and the hospital is burnt down; some accident happens and the vehicles are burnt down; people launch a movement and the public property is burnt down; is it for a free India?  It is the property of 125 crore Indians. Whose cultural legacy is this? This is our cultural legacy, the legacy of 125 crore people. Whose faith is this? This is our faith, the faith of 125 crore people; and that is why the path of violence in the name of faith can never succeed in this country. The country will never accept this. And that is why I’d like to appeal to all the countrymen that at that time our motto was ‘Bharat Chodo’ and today’s slogan is ‘Bharat Jodo’. We have to take everyone and every section of the society along to take the country forward.

In order to build a prosperous India, we need a strong economy, balanced development and next generation infrastructure. Only then, we  can realise the India of our dreams.

Brothers and sisters,

We have taken innumerable decisions over the past three years. Some have been noticed, while the rest may not have been noticed. But one thing is important – when you move towards big changes, you will face hurdles. But look at the working style of this government; when a train crosses a railway station and changes the track, the speed needs to be reduced from 60 to 30. The speed of the train decreases while changing the track. We are trying to put the whole country on a new track without decreasing the speed. We have maintained the speed.

We may have brought a number of new laws and systems such as the GST, but we have successfully accomplished the task and the work goes on.

We have laid emphasis on infrastructure.  We have invested lot of funds for building the infrastructure – from modernization of the railway station in a small town, to build an Airport, to expand water-ways or roadways, to form a gas-grid or a water-grid or to lay down an optical fibre network. We are emphasising on all types of modern infrastructure.

My dear countrymen,

The prosperity of Eastern India is required for India’s forward movement into the 21st century. It has tremendous potential, rich human resources, immense natural wealth, work force and it has the power to change lives. We are devoting significant attention to eastern India- Bihar, Assam, West Bengal, Odisha, and the Northeast. These parts have to grow further. These are abundant in natural resources and are striving hard to take the country to new heights.

Brothers and sisters,

Making India corruption-free is an important task and we are trying to provide impetus to it. After forming the government, our first task was to constitute an SIT. Today, after three years, I want to tell the countrymen proudly that we have confiscated black money worth Rs. 1.25 lakh crores, the culprits would be brought to book and forced to surrender.

Demonetization followed this move. We have achieved several milestones through demonetization. The hidden black money has been brought into the formal economy. You must have seen that we used to extend the days from 7 days to 10 days to 15 days; sometimes we allowed the old notes at the petrol pump, at the chemist shops, and sometimes at the railway stations, because our intention was to bring all money into the formal banking system and we achieved success in completing the task. According to the research conducted by outside experts, about Rs.3 lakh crores that had never come into the banking system before, has been brought into the system after the demonetization.

More than Rs. 1.75 lakh crores deposited in the banks is under the scanner. Black money worth Rs. 2 lakh crore had to be deposited in the banks and this system has forced them to be accountable. It   has also stopped the flow of black money. The number of new taxpayers filing income tax returns from April 01 to August 05 is 56 lakhs while in the same period last year only 22 lakh filed the returns.. In a way it has more than doubled. This is the result of our fight against black money.

Over 18 lakh people have been identified, whose income is much higher than what their declared income and therefore they have to clarify this. Around 4.5 lakh people have now come forward and are trying to trade the right path after accepting their mistakes. One lakh people, who had neither heard of Income Tax nor paid Income Tax, have now been forced to do so.

Brothers and sisters,

In our country, we tend to indulge in endless debates and discussions following the shutdown of companies.  People start speculating about economic meltdown and what not.

You will be surprised to know that black marketers used to own shell companies. Post demonetization, the reports from data mining astonishingly revealed that there are 3 lakh shell companies dealing in Hawala transactions. Can anyone imagine? Out of these 3 lakh shell companies, registration of 1.75 lakh companies were cancelled.

Even if five companies shut shop in India, there is huge public outcry. And here, we have closed one lakh Seventy five thousand companies. The looters of nation’s wealth will have to answer.  We have accomplished this task.

You will be surprised to know that there are some shell companies operating from a single address. As many as 400 companies have been found to be operating from one address.  There was no one to question them. There was a total collusion.

Therefore, Brothers and sisters, I have waged a big war against corruption and black money. We are fighting corruption – for the bright future of India and the wellbeing of our people.

Brothers and sisters,

We have taken several steps and I am sure that post GST, it will increase further and bring in transparency. Today a truck driver on an average is able to save 30% of his travel time from one point to another after GST was introduced. Hundreds of crores of rupees have been saved due to removal of check posts. This amounts to 30% increase in his efficiency. Can you imagine what it means to accomplish 30% more efficiency in the Indian transportation sector? GST has brought this revolutionary change.

My dear countrymen,

Today due to demonetization, banks have enough liquidity. Banks are reducing their interest rates. Even a common man is able to access inflow of funds through Mudra. He is getting opportunities to stand on his feet. The middle class and the underprivileged who aspire to have their own homes someday, are getting loans from the banks at low interest rates. Such moves are giving a fillip to the economic growth of the country.

My dear countrymen,

Time has changed. We are in the 21st Century. Our country boasts of the world’s largest youth population.

India is known in the world for its prowess in IT and Digital World. Should we still remain in the old mind-set? There was a time when leather coins were in vogue, but gradually they ceased to exist. Today we have paper-currency. Slowly this paper-currency will be replaced by the digital currency. We should lead from the front to make a move towards Digital transactions. We should adopt BHIM App for transactions and make it a part of our economic activities. We should also work through prepaid systems. I am happy that there has been an increase in Digital transactions. It has increased by 34% compared to last year while the prepaid transactions have gone up by  44%. We should move towards a less-cash economy.

My Dear Countrymen, some schemes of the Government are meant for ensuring savings for the common man. If you use LED bulbs, you can save Rs.2000 to Rs. 5000 per year. If we succeed in Swachh Bharat, poor will be able to save Rs. 7000 on medicines that they would otherwise have spent. Curbing inflation has helped people in saving money in a way.

Cheap medicines through Jan Aushadhi Kendras are a boon to the poor. There used to be a lot of expenditure on operations and stents. We are striving to make it possible for knee operations as well. We are striving to minimize this expenditure for the poor and the middle class.

Earlier there used to be Dialysis only at the State capitals. Now we have decided to open Dialysis Centres at district level. We have already opened this facility in 350 to 400 districts where free Dialysis services are available for the poor.

We can take pride in the fact that we have developed various systems to showcase to the world. We have been able to develop the ‘NAVIC Navigation System’ through GPS. We have helped the neighbouring countries by successfully launching SAARC Satellite.

We asserted our supremacy in the world by introducing Tejas aircraft. BHIM Aadhaar App for digital transaction has come as a surprise to the world. Crores of RuPay Cards are now available in the country. When all the cards will be operational, it will be the largest number of cards in the world.

My dear countrymen, I shall urge you to take up the New India Pledge and move ahead.  Our scriptures say, “अनियत काल:, अनियत कालः प्रभुत्यो विपलवन्ते, प्रभुत्यो विपलवन्ते”.  It implies that, if we don’t accomplish a work within the stipulated time then we shall not be able to get the desired results. So for the ‘Team India’, for the 125 crore countrymen, we have to take the pledge to achieve the goal by 2022.

We will do it with dedication to see a great, majestic India by 2022.

So we will together build such an India where the poor will have Pucca House with electricity and water.

Together we will build such an India where the farmers can sleep without worry. They will earn double by 2022 of what they are earning today.

Together we will build such an India where the youth, the women will have enough opportunities to fulfil their dreams.

Together we will build such an India which will be free from terrorism, communalism and casteism.

Together we will build such an India where nobody will compromise with corruption and nepotism.

Together we will build such an India which will be clean and healthy, and where the dream of Su-Raj will be fulfilled.

And that is why my dear fellow countrymen, we will together strive to move ahead in this march towards development.

Let all of us march together with the dream of a building an India of grandeur and majesty as we wait for the 75th year of independence after completing 70 years of Independence in the next five years.

With this thought in mind I once again bow my head before the heroes of our freedom movement. I bow my head before the new confidence and passion of my 125 crore countrymen and I call upon Team India to march on with this new pledge.

With this thought I convey my hearty congratulations to all of you.

Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Vande Matram, Jai Hind

Jai Hind, Jai Hind, Jai Hind, Jai Hind

Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki Jai,

Vande Matram, Vande Matram, Vande Matram, Vande Matram,

Thanking you all.